1) Recherche du mot : Benguela (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/benguela_ecosystem)
1/1: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofplanktonwithreferencetofishvariabilityinthebenguelacurrentlargemarineecosystemanoverview> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Variability of plankton with reference to fish variability in the benguela current Large Marine Ecosystem – An Overview.


2/2: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/applicationofachlorophyllindexderivedfromsatellitedatatoinvestigatethevariabilityofphytoplanktoninthebenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 0.91553277
Doc : Application of a chlorophyll index derived from satellite data to investigate the variability of phytoplankton in the Benguela ecosystem
The spatial and temporal variability in phytoplankton biomass in the Benguela ecosystem was investigated over an 8-year period using a chlorophyll index (Chi Index) derived from low resolution SeaWiFS ocean colour data. Monthly composite images revealed that the surface chlorophyll a concentration was high near the coast and generally decreased with distance offshore, allowing observation of the spatial extent of phytoplankton distribution in relation to coastal upwelling. The Chi Index was estimated as the integration of the chlorophyll a concentration from the coast to an offshore minimum level of 1mg m(-3). The index captured both the cross-shelf structure and the major part of the chlorophyllrich areas and was used to examine the average seasonality and annual variability in phytoplankton biomass. The data indicated that the Benguela ecosystem may be divided into two major sectors, north and south, with the divide occurring at the Luderitz upwelling cell where the Chi Index, the chlorophyll a concentration, and the offshore extent of phytoplankton were at a minimum. The index revealed a clearer and more contrasting seasonal pattern than simple coastal averaged values of chlorophyll. The latitudinal gradient and seasonal change in the index and wind forcing showed that the northern and southern sectors were out of phase and that the Benguela ecosystem appears to have a dipole structure. The interannual variation in biomass was highlighted and showed a high variability in the dipole, including shorter periods of synchronicity during 2001 and 2002. The simple Chi Index derived for the Benguela appears to be robust and generic enough to be applied to other upwelling systems as a reasonably good index of variability in phytoplankton biomass for comparative studies.

3/3: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatializedecosystemindicatorsinthesouthernbenguela> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Spatialized ecosystem indicators in the southern Benguela
Based on published distribution maps of 15 key fish species, foraging areas of three top predators during their breeding season, and fishing grounds of the main commercial fleets in the southern Benguela ecosystem, seven spatialized ecosystem indicators are derived: biodiversity, connectivity, mean ratio of fished area and area of distribution by species, exploited fraction of the ecosystem surface area, total catch per fished area by fishery, mean bottom depth of catches, and mean distance of catches from the coast. These indicators are compared and their suitability for an ecosystem approach to fisheries is discussed. The first two indicators characterize the ecosystem; the others are pressure indicators that are also compared with conventional (catch rate) indices of abundance.

4/4: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/indicatorsquantifyingsmallpelagicfishinteractionsapplicationusingatrophicmodelofthesouthernbenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Indicators quantifying small pelagic fish interactions: application using a trophic model of the southern Benguela ecosystem
Three indicators quantifying interactions between species are developed for an upwelling system to provide useful measures for the comparison of marine ecosystem structure and function. Small pelagic fish are dominant in upwelling systems, and by definition, they are pivotal in a wasp-waist upwelling system. The indicator of interaction strength (IS) quantifies the effect that a change in biomass of one group has on abundance of other groups. The functional impact (FI) indicator quantifies the trophic impacts of species on their own and other functional groups or feeding guilds. The trophic replacement (TR) indicator quantifies the trophic similarity between a species that is removed from an ecosystem and other species in that ecosystem, i.e. it quantifies the ability of one group to trophically replace another. A trophic model of the southern Benguela ecosystem is used as an example for the application of the indicators. The strong similarities in trophic functioning of the southern Benguela ecosystem in the anchovy-dominated system of the 1980s, and the 1990s when there was a shift towards greater sardine abundance, are explained by the mutual trophic replacement abilities of anchovy and sardine. Differences between the proposed indicators and mixed trophic impact assessment are highlighted, mainly resulting from the static versus dynamic nature of the models upon which they are based. Trophic indicators such as those presented here, together with other kinds of ecosystem indicators, may assist in defining operational frameworks for ecosystem-based fisheries management.
© 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

5/5: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophodynamicindicatorsforanecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Trophodynamic indicators for an ecosystem approach to fisheries
Acknowledging ecological interactions, such as predation, is key to an ecosystem approach to fisheries. Trophodynamic indicators are needed to measure the strength of the interactions between the different living components, and of structural ecosystem changes resulting from exploitation. We review trophodynamic indicators derived from models, as well as from emergent patterns such as trophic cascades and regime shifts. From 46 indicators identified in the literature, six (catch or biomass ratios, primary production required to support catch, production or consumption ratios and predation mortality, trophic level of the catch, fishing-in-balance, and mixed trophic impact) were selected because of their ability to reveal ecosystem-level patterns, and because they match published criteria. This suite of indicators is applied to the northern and southern Benguela ecosystems, and their performance is evaluated to depict drastic and contrasted ecosystem changes. A few complementary indicators are suggested as needed to detect the trophodynamic impacts of fisheries and ecosystem changes. Trends in indicators are sensitive to the choice of trophic level made for certain species. Trophodynamic indicators appear to be conservative, because they respond slowly to large structural changes in an ecosystem. Application of the selected indicators to other marine ecosystems is encouraged so as to evaluate fully their usefulness to an ecosystem approach to fisheries, and to establish international comparability.
©2004 International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. Published by  Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

6/6: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/twowaycouplingversusonewayforcingofplanktonandfishmodelstopredictecosystemchangesinthebenguela> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Two-way coupling versus one-way forcing of plankton and fish models to predict ecosystem changes in the Benguela
‘End-to-end' models have been adopted in an attempt to capture more of the processes that influence the ecology of marine ecosystems and to make system wide predictions of the effects of fishing and climate change. Here, we develop an end-to-end model by coupling existing models that describe the dynamics of low (ROMS–N2P2Z2D2) and high trophic levels (OSMOSE). ROMS–N2P2Z2D2 is a biogeochemical model representing phytoplankton and zooplankton seasonal dynamics forced by hydrodynamics in the Benguela upwelling ecosystem. OSMOSE is an individual-based model representing the dynamics of several species of fish, linked through opportunistic and size-based trophic interactions. The models are coupled through a two-way size-based predation process. Plankton provides prey for fish, and the effects of predation by fish on the plankton are described by a plankton mortality term that is variable in space and time. Using the end-to-end model, we compare the effects of two-way coupling versus one-way forcing of the fish model with the plankton biomass field. The fish-induced mortality on plankton is temporally variable, in part explained by seasonal changes in fish biomass. Inclusion of two-way feedback affects the seasonal dynamics of plankton groups and usually reduces the amplitude of variation in abundance (top-down effect). Forcing and coupling lead to different predicted food web structures owing to changes in the dominant food chain which is supported by plankton (bottom-up effect). Our comparisons of one-way forcing and two-way coupling show how feedbacks may affect abundance, food web structure and food web function and emphasise the need to critically examine the consequences of different model architectures when seeking to predict the effects of fishing and climate change.

7/7: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trendsinprimaryproductionseasurfacetemperatureandwindinupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Trends in primary production, sea surface temperature and wind in upwelling systems (1998-2007)
We take advantage of the longest high quality single-sensor global data set of ocean color available today to explore recent trends in the primary productivity of the main eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUEs): California, Canary, Humboldt and Benguela. The chlorophyll-a concentration is used as a proxy for primary production. SST data from AVHRR and wind speed data from QuikSCAT are used in conjunction with this data set to analyse forcing mechanisms explaining the chlorophyll biomass.
Whereas the worldwide primary-production biomass shows on average decreasing trends, as already observed in the stratified part of the worldwide ocean, the productivity of most EBUEs increases during the study period. These contrasting trends are both significant, at least for the mid latitude range of 50°S-50°N, where the data coverage is sufficient for accurate estimation.
Probably due to the large scale atmospheric forcing, trends in sea surface temperature (SST) show non-significant relationships with the trends in biomass within upwelling systems, suggesting that SST anomalies cannot be used as an indicator of change in upwelling intensity in a continuous warming context. On the other hand, upwelling favourable equatorward winds show a significant correlation with the observed trends in biomass, suggesting that the trends in the trade winds are probably linked to an increase in the intensity of the Hadley cell circulation observed during the last several decades.

8/8: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitytheoryforecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Viability theory for ecosystem approach to fisheries
Maintenance of overall ecosystem complexity is perceived as critical to the sustainability of ecosystem use. The development of an operational basis for an ecosystem approach to fisheries, however, faces many difficulties. On the research side, the challenge is in defining proper long-term, ecosystem-related objectives; determining meaningful reference values and indicators for desirable or undesirable states of the ecosystem; and developing appropriate data collection, analytical tools and models. The "viability" concept developed in economics by Jean-Pierre Aubin can be used to assist in the definition, selection of, and interaction among long-term objectives at an ecosystem level. It recognizes that ecosystems are complex assemblages of interacting and self-organizing natural and human components that cannot be predicted. Viability models define an ensemble of "viable states", in contrast to undesirable states defined as such by ecological, economic, and/or social constraints. These constraints can be derived from fisheries objectives, conservation principles, scientific results of modelling, or precautionary principles, and correspond to limit reference points to be avoided. Viability theory does not attempt to choose any "optimal solution" according to given criteria, but selects "viable evolutions". These evolutions are compatible with the constraints in the sense that they satisfy them at each time and can be delineated by the viability kernel. The southern Benguela marine ecosystem is presented as a first attempt for the application of this theory. In defining ecosystem-based objectives (and related issues such as target reference points), it seems more difficult to reach consensus among stakeholders on what is desirable than on what is undesirable (e.g. biological or economic collapse, species extinction, displacement of local rural communities). Expressed in the negative form or as limit reference points, ecosystem-based constraints can be considered simultaneously with current target reference points, such as maximum sustainable yield, using viability models. The viability approach can help to progressively integrate ecosystem considerations, such as conservation, into fisheries management.

9/9: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/simulatingandtestingthesensitivityofecosystembasedindicatorstofishinginthesouthernbenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Simulating and testing the sensitivity of ecosystem-based indicators to fishing in the southern Benguela ecosystem
The sensitivity of size-based, species-based, and trophodynamic indicators is examined for the fish community of the southern Benguela ecosystem (South Africa) through simulations of different fishing scenarios using the multispecies model OSMOSE. The simulations suggest that it may be erroneous to consider one absolute reference direction of change for any indicator because the direction of change is specific to both the multispecies assemblage and the fishing scenario considered. The analysis of species versus community indicators is helpful for understanding which processes drive the emergent properties of the ecosystem. Informative about the structure and state of the ecosystem, both types of indicators weighted by biomass or by abundance should be used to evaluate ecosystem changes. Indicators characterizing size distribution (e.g., slope of size spectrum) appear to be more helpful in distinguishing the cause of ecosystem changes than mean community indicators because their response is specific to the fishing scenario simulate 
(i.e., global or hake-targeting fishing). Some indicators do not seem to be sensitive to fishing pressure (slope of the diversity size spectrum) or do not vary consistently with other studies (W statistic).

10/10: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/contributiontothecdentitledbenguelaforecastingalargemarineecosystem> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Contribution to the CD entitled « Benguela : Forecasting a Large Marine Ecosystem »
published with the book

11/11: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingandcomparingthespawninghabitatsofanchovyengraulisencrasicolusandsardinesardinopssagaxinthesouthernbenguelaupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : Characterizing and comparing the spawning habitats of anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem
The spawning habitats of anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus and sardine Sardinops sagax in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem were characterised by comparing their egg abundances with environmental variables measured concomitantly during two different survey programmes: the South African Sardine and Anchovy Recruitment Programme (SARP), which comprised monthly surveys conducted during the austral summers of 1993/94 and 1994/95; and annual pelagic spawner biomass surveys conducted in early summer (November/December) from 1984 to 1999. Eggs were collected using a CalVET net. Physical variables measured included sea surface temperature (SST), surface salinity, water depth, mixed-layer depth, and current and wind speeds; biological variables measured included phytoplankton biomass, and zooplankton biomass and production. Spawning habitat was identified by construction of quotient curves derived from egg abundance data and individual environmental variables, and relationships between these variables were determined using multivariate co-inertia analysis. SARP data showed that anchovy spawning was associated with cool water and moderate wind and current speeds, whereas sardine spawning was related to warmer water and more turbulent and unstable conditions (i.e. high wind speeds and strong currents) than for anchovy. SARP data also showed significant differences in selection of spawning habitat of the two species for all environmental variables. The relationship between anchovy egg abundance and salinity was strongly positive, but strongly negative with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. Sardine egg abundance was strongly positively related to current speed. The spawner biomass survey data demonstrated that the spawning habitat of anchovy was characterised by warm water and high salinity, whereas sardine spawning was associated with cool water and low salinity. The survey data showed significant differences in spawning habitat selection by anchovy and sardine for SST, salinity and zooplankton biomass, but not for the other environmental variables. There was a positive relationship between anchovy egg abundance and SST, salinity and mixed-layer depth, and a negative relationship with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. For sardine there was a strong positive relationship between egg abundance and current speed and wind speed. Differences in the results between the two survey programmes could be attributable to differences in their spatio-temporal coverage. Spawning habitats of anchovy and sardine appear to be substantially different, with anchovy being more specific than sardine in their preference of various environmental conditions.

12/12: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/cultivationalleeeffectandresilienceoflargedemersalfishpopulations> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Cultivation, Allee effect and resilience of large demersal fish populations
In the marine environment, small forage species can predate on, or compete with, the pre-recruits of their larger predators. The “cultivation effect” hypothesis proposes that this mechanism can slow down the recovery of depleted populations of large demersal fishes by creating Allee effects that lower their recruitment success. Using an individual based fish community model applied to the southern Benguela ecosystem, we simulate situations of potential cultivation effect on a population of shallow water hake Merluccius capensis. We search for evidence of Allee effects due to cultivation and investigate how complex trophic interactions could influence their underlying mechanisms and impact. The resilience of the shallow water hake population was measured by following the variations of the ratio R/S (the number of recruits over the number of spawners) when population size decreases and the predators and competitors of shallow water hake pre-recruits were identified. Simulations suggest that cultivation effects are likely to emerge within the fish community of the southern Benguela ecosystem. Our twelve species model emphasizes that cultivation effects result from complex influences of predation and competition on the different pre-recruit stages, whose trophic role depends on both body size and geographical distribution. For realistic linkages between forage species and shallow water hake pre-recruits, cultivation effects occurring in the limits of the southern Benguela fish community are predicted to delay population recovery by several decades. These significant delays are not characterized by a decrease of R/S at low stock size, which is the sign usually tracked when looking for Allee effects. Our study suggests that cultivation effects could play a major role in the dynamics of overexploited large demersal fish populations and pleads for the development of improved detection techniques for these processes.

13/13: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingtheprimaryandsecondaryproductionsofthesouthernbenguelaupwellingsystemacomparativestudythroughtwobiogeochemicalmodelsglobalbiogeochem> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Modeling the primary and secondary productions of the southern Benguela upwelling system: A comparative study through two biogeochemical models, Global Biogeochem
A three-dimensional primitive equation model, the Regional Ocean Modeling Systems (ROMS), coupled to two biogeochemical configurations (NPZD and N2P2Z2D2) was used to study the dynamics of the first trophic levels of the pelagic food web in the southern Benguela upwelling system. The domain extends from the Agulhas Bank bordered by the Agulhas Current to 27°S on the west coast of South Africa. The circulation is driven by monthly climatologies of atmospheric forcing fields. The NPZD ecosystem model consists of four state variables: nutrient (nitrate), phytoplankton, zooplankton and detritus. In the N2P2Z2D2 model, ammonium has been added and the three other variables have been divided into small and large organisms or detritus. Both models are able to reproduce the spatio-temporal phytoplankton distribution. Along the west coast, chlorophyll concentrations maxima are associated to surface waters. Westward dominating winds generate the lowest chlorophyll concentrations encountered in winter. The small phytoplankton organisms simulated by the N2P2Z2D2 model are responsible for a weaker chlorophyll inshore/offshore gradient, in closer agreement with observations. Transitions from a regime dominated by new production (high f ratio) to one dominated by regenerated production (low f ratio) happen to be abrupt, underlying the constant competition between small and large organisms with regard to upwelling induced nutrient inputs. On the Agulhas Bank, the summer enrichment is associated with subsurface maxima, while in winter, mixing by storms results in a homogeneous phytoplankton distribution in the water column. Regenerated production plays an important role in maintaining the total phytoplankton growth. Zooplankton biomass reflects the overall patterns of chlorophyll a concentrations with differences between the west coast and the Agulhas Bank, consistent with data, and its distribution exhibits a clear seasonal contrast. The seasonality of small and large zooplankton in the N2P2Z2D2 model is quite distinct, which allows, from the Agulhas Bank to St. Helena Bay, a food continuum for fish larvae. This was not achieved with the simpler NPZD model, emphasizing the importance of representing the appropriate level of complexity to characterize food availability for higher trophic levels.

14/14: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingforecastingandscenariosincomparableupwellingecosystemscaliforniacanaryandhumboldt> : SCORE = 0.30707902
Doc : Modelling, forecasting and scenarios in comparable upwelling ecosystems: California, Canary and Humboldt
The three eastern boundary ecosystems comparable to the Benguela ecosystem (BCE)
display differences and commonalities. The California (CalCE) and Humboldt Current
(HCE) ecosystems are continuous topographically, whereas the Canary Current
ecosystem (CanCE) is interrupted by the Gulf of Cadiz and the Canaries archipelago.
All have similar regimes of equatorward flow over shelf and slope associated with
upwelling and a subsurface poleward flow over the slope, though in the HCE multiple
flows and counter-flows appear offshore. All systems exhibit year round upwelling in
their centre and seasonal upwelling at their extremes as the trade wind systems that
drive them migrate north and south, though the HCE is strongly skewed toward the
equator. All systems vary on scales from the event or synoptic scale of a few days,
through seasonal, to inter-decadal and long term. Productivity of each system follows
the upwelling cycle, though intra-regional variations in nutrient content and forcing
cause significant variability within regions. The CanCE is relatively unproductive
compared to the CalCE and HCE as a result of differences in large scale circulation
between the Pacific and Atlantic. The latter two systems are dominated by El Niño -
Southern Oscillation (ENSO) variability on a scale of 4-7 years. Physical modeling
with the Princeton Ocean Model and the Regional Oceanic Modeling System has
advanced recently to the stage of reproducing realistic mesoscale features and energy
levels with climatic wind forcing. Operational forecasting by these models with
assimilation of sea surface temperature and other data is successfully implemented in
CalCE. On longer time scales, the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory model is able
to hindcast El Niño variability over the long term up to 2 years in advance. Empirical
ecological models in all three systems have attempted prediction of permissible catch
level (fractional Maximum Sustainable Yield), recruitment, catches or onset of
migration with lack of continued success, partly because discontinuous or inadequate
observations hamper model implementation and assessment. Moreover, empirical
models tuned to particular environments fail when fundamental regime shifts occur.
One of the most successful approaches is that of intensive monitoring of catch and
188 P. Fréon
environmental parameters linked to an informal Operational Management Procedure
(OMP) to inform fisheries management off Peru. This OMP contributed to
preservation of anchovy stock during the 1997-8 El Niño but remains to be formalized
or tested under varying conditions. Prediction on time scales of global warming are
uncertain because physical climate models still disagree on whether upwelling will
intensify or weaken. Possible scenarios on decadal scale based on warming or cooling
of waters in the Eastern Boundary Current systems can be proffered, albeit with little
confidence at present. Future approaches for all systems, including the BCE, will in
the long run likely combine coupled atmospheric/ocean models with biological process
models. Judicious application of purely statistical modeling based on inherent time
series properties will assist, though such techniques are unable to cope with regime
shifts.

15/15: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/dietofsardinesardinopssagaxinthenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystemandcomparisonwiththedietsofclupeoidsinthisandothereasternboundaryupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Diet of sardine (Sardinops sagax) in the northern Humboldt Current system and comparison with the diets of clupeoids in this and other eastern boundary upwelling systems
Sardines are one of the main small pelagic fish resources in eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUS) where they play an important ecological role both as a predator of plankton and as prey of top predators. Sardine trophodynamics have been relatively well studied in three of the EBUS (the Benguela, California and Canary upwelling systems) but not in the Humboldt Current system. In this paper we describe the diet of sardine Sardinops sagax in the northern Humboldt Current system (NHCS) off Peru, using an analytical method which assesses relative dietary importance in terms of estimated prey carbon content. We assessed sardine diet by examining a total of 555 stomachs collected during six surveys conducted off Peru during the period 1996–1998, and compare our results with the diet of anchoveta Engraulis ringens off Peru and with the diets of sardines from the southern Benguela (also S. sagax) and the northern Canary (Sardina pilchardus) upwelling systems. The diet of sardine off Peru is based primarily on zooplankton, similar to that observed for anchoveta but with several important differences. Firstly, sardine feed on smaller zooplankton than do anchoveta, with sardine diet consisting of smaller copepods and fewer euphausiids than anchoveta diet. Secondly, whilst phytoplankton represents <2% of sardine dietary carbon, this fraction is dominated by dinoflagellates, whereas diatoms are the dominant phytoplankton consumed by anchoveta. Hence, trophic competition between sardine and anchovy in the northern Humboldt Current system is minimized by their partitioning of the zooplankton food resource based on prey size, as has been reported in other systems. Whereas sardine in the NHCS feed on smaller zooplankton than do anchovy in that system, sardine in the NHCS forage on larger prey and obtain a substantial portion of their dietary carbon from euphausiids compared to sardine from the northern Canary and southern Benguela Current systems.

16/16: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howcansciencecontributetoanecosystemapproachtopelagicdemersalandrocklobsterfisheriesinsouthafrica> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : How can science contribute to an ecosystem approach to pelagic, demersal and rock lobster fisheries in South Africa?
South Africa is committed to moving towards an Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries (EAF) and has laid the foundations for this using a three-pronged approach: through a project (EAF Feasibility Study) under the Benguela Current Large Marine Ecosystem Programme; through a dedicated scientific working group established by the Marine and Coastal Management branch of South Africa's Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism; and through collaborative scientific and modelling studies within the joint French-South African ‘Upwelling Ecosystems' Programme. This contribution provides an overview of the progress made towards developing an EAF in South Africa, both on the scientific front in terms of improved understanding of the functioning of the Benguela ecosystem and the ways in which its ecosystem components interact, and regarding the practical ways being explored to enable scientific advice to feed in to South African fisheries management while taking into account broad stakeholder concerns. The paper focusses particularly on the role played by scientific contributions (research and monitoring) to address these ecosystem issues in three important South African fisheries — pelagic, demersal and rock lobster — so that the appropriate management measures can be put into place. Socio-economic concerns are included for the rock lobster fishery.

17/17: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/enrichmentconcentrationandretentionprocessesinrelationtoanchovyengraulisringenseggsandlarvaedistributionsinthenorthernhumboldtupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Enrichment, concentration and retention processes in relation to anchovy (Engraulis ringens) eggs and larvae distributions in the northern Humboldt upwelling ecosystem
A Lagrangian model is used to simulate and quantify in the northern Humboldt upwelling ecosystem the processes of enrichment, concentration and retention, identified by Bakun [Bakun, A., 1996. Patterns in the ocean. Ocean processes and marine population (sic). University of California Sea Grant, California, USA, in cooperation with Centro de Investigaciones Biologicas de Noroeste, (sic) California Sur, Mexico, 323 pp.] as being important for the survival and recruitment of early life stages of pelagic fish. The method relies on tracking the positions of particles within water velocity fields generated by a three-dimensional hydrodynamic model. Simple criteria for considering particles as participating to enrichment, concentration or retention are used to derive indices of the three processes. We analyse the spatial distribution of and seasonal variability in these indices. The results are discussed in relation to anchovy (Engraulis ringens) eggs and larvae distributions off Peru, and to a comparable study conducted in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem.

18/18: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/simulationandquantificationofenrichmentandretentionprocessesinthesouthernbenguelaupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Simulation and quantification of enrichment and retention processes in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem
Important environmental processes for the survival and recruitment of early life stages of pelagic fishes have been synthesized through Bakun's fundamental triad as enrichment, concentration and retention processes (A. Bakun, 1996, Patterns in the Ocean. Ocean Processes and Marine Population Dynamics. San Diego, CA, USA: University of California Sea Grant). This conceptual framework states that from favourable spawning habitats, eggs and larvae would be transported to and/or retained in places where food originating from enrichment areas would be concentrated. We propose a method for quantifying two of the triad processes, enrichment and retention, based on the Lagrangian tracking of particles transported within water velocity fields generated by a three-dimensional hydrodynamic model. We apply this method to the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem, constructing putative maps of enrichment and retention. We comment on these maps regarding main features of the circulation in the region, and investigate seasonal variability of the processes. We finally discuss the results in relation to available knowledge on the reproductive strategies of two pelagic clupeoid species abundant in the southern Benguela, anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax). Our approach is intended to be sufficiently generic so as to allow its application to other upwelling systems.

19/19: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/regimeshiftsinupwellingecosystemsobservedchangesandpossiblemechanismsinthenorthernandsouthernbenguela> : SCORE = 1.002916
Doc : Regime shifts in upwelling ecosystems: observed changes and possible mechanisms in the northern and southern Benguela
A regime shift is considered to be a sudden shift in structure and functioning of a marine ecosystem, affecting several living components and resulting in an alternate state. According to this definition, regime shifts differ from species replacement or alternation of species at similar trophic levels, whereby the ecosystem is not necessarily significantly altered in terms of its structure and function; only its species composition changes. This paper provides an overview of regime shifts, species replacements and alternations that have been observed in the northern and southern Benguela ecosystems over the past few decades. Bottom-up control, initiating and sustaining regime shifts or species replacements via environmental forcing, is documented for both the southern and the northern Benguela ecosystems. Fishing (a case of top-down control) appears to have played an important role in regime shift processes in the Namibian ecosystem. Very low biomass levels of exploited fish stocks associated with less efficient energy transfer in the northern Benguela are indicative of a regime shift. Very high biomass levels have been reached in the southern Benguela in the 2000s. However the alternation between sardine and anchovy that has been observed in the southern Benguela over the last two decades appears not to have had major effects on the overall functioning of the ecosystem. The consequences of regime shifts for exploitation are highlighted, suggesting that fisheries managers should move towards a more effective ecosystem approach to fisheries.
© 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

20/20: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/changesinfoodwebstructureunderscenariosofoverfishinginthesouthernbenguelacomparisonoftheecosimandosmosemodellingapproaches> : SCORE = 0.62052256
Doc : Changes in food web structure under scenarios of overfishing in the southern Benguela: comparison of the Ecosim and OSMOSE modelling approaches
Ecosystem models provide a platform allowing exploration into the possible responses of marine food webs to fishing pressure and various potential management decisions. In this study we investigate the particular effects of overfishing on the structure and function of the southern Benguela food web, using two models with different underlying assumptions: the spatialized, size-based individual-based model, OSMOSE, and the trophic mass-balance model, Ecopath with Ecosim (EwE). Starting from the same reference state of the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem during the 1990s, we compare the response of the food web to scenarios of overfishing using these two modelling approaches. A scenario of increased fishing mortality is applied to two distinct functional groups: i) two species of Cape hake, representing important target predatory fish, and ii) the forage species anchovy, sardine and redeye. In these simulations, fishing mortality on the selected functional groups is doubled for 10 years, followed by 10 years at the initial fishing mortality. We compare the food web states before the increase of fishing mortality, after 10 years of overfishing and after a further 10 years during which fishing was returned to initial levels. In order to compare the simulated food web structures with the reference state, and between the two modelling approaches, we use a set of trophic indicators: the mean trophic level of the community and in catches, the trophic pyramid (biomass per discrete trophic level), and the predatory/forage fish biomass ratio. OSMOSE and EwE present globally similar results for the trophic functioning of the ecosystem under fishing pressure: the biomass of targeted species decreases whereas that of their potential competitors increases. The reaction of distant species is more diverse, depending on the feeding links between the compartments. The mean trophic level of the community does not vary enough to be used for assessing ecosystem impacts of fishing, and the mean trophic level in the catch displays a surprising increase due to the short period of overfishing. The trophic pyramids behave in an unexpected way compared to trophic control theory, because at least two food chains with different dynamics are intertwined within the food web. We emphasize the importance of biomass information at the species level for interpreting dynamics in aggregated indicators, and we highlight the importance of competitive groups when looking at ecosystem functioning under fishing disturbance. Finally, we discuss the results within the scope of differences between models, in terms of the way they are formulated, spatial dimensions, predation formulations and the representation of fish life cycles.

21/21: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemmodellingapproachesforsouthafricanfisheriesmanagement> : SCORE = 1.0637529
Doc : Ecosystem modelling approaches for South African fisheries management
A variety of ecosystem modeling approaches is available, some of which have
been successfully applied to the southern Benguela ecosystem. How these models could be
useful for fisheries management and how they might assist in reconciling fisheries with
conservation, has not always been clear. At the end of 2002, a workshop was held to introduce
the concept of an ecosystem approach to fisheries (EAF) management to South African scientists
and managers. It was recommended that an EAF be implemented as an incremental process
with immediate effect in South Africa. An ecosystem modeling perspective should be incorporated
into existing single species management recommendations by using ecosystem models to test
the implications of these recommendations. This paper describes the rich variety of ecosystem
models that are being applied to the southern Benguela. Focusing on the South African small
pelagic fisheries, it documents how these models are assisting the current implementation of an
EAF in the southern Benguela and suggests how future management and conservation issues
should be addressed in South African fisheries.

22/22: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/exploringtheeffectofmarineprotectedareasonthedynamicsoffishcommunitiesinthesouthernbenguelaanindividualbasedmodellingapproach> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Exploring the effect of Marine Protected Areas on the dynamics of fish communities in the southern Benguela: an individual-based modelling approach
Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) have been suggested as a tool that can achieve some of the goals of an Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries (EAF), e.g. prevention of overexploitation, biodiversity conservation, recovery of overexploited population, but the consequences of their establishment on the dynamics of protected components are often unclear. Spatial and multispecies models can be used to investigate the effects of their introduction. An individual-based, spatially explicit, size-structured, multispecies model (known as OSMOSE) is used to investigate the likely consequences of the introduction of three MPAs off the coast of South Africa, individually or in combination. The simultaneous introduction of the MPAs affected varying proportions of the distribution of the modelled species (5–17%) and 12% of the distribution of the whole community. In general, the introduction of the MPAs in the different scenarios resulted in a relative increase in the biomass of large predatory fish and a decrease in the biomass of small pelagic fish. The simulation demonstrates that consideration of trophic interactions is necessary when introducing MPAs, with indirect effects that may be detrimental to some (mainly smaller prey) species

23/23: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/densitydependentchangesinreproductiveparametersandconditionofsouthernbenguelasardinesardinopssagax> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Density-dependent changes in reproductive parameters and condition of Southern Benguela sardine Sardinops sagax
The sardine Sardinops sagax population in the southern Benguela has undergone substantial fluctuations in size over the past 50 years, collapsing from an apparently large population in the 1950s to low levels in the mid-1960s, remaining low for the next two decades, and recovering from the late 1980s to a population size that is now similar to or larger than that which occurred during the 1950s. Marked changes in condition and reproductive parameters of sardine have also occurred during this period; condition and standardised gonad mass are higher and length-at-maturity is lower at low population size compared with high population size. The correspondence between the temporal patterns in condition, reproductive parameters and population size are strongly suggestive of density-dependence, and indicate a compensatory response arising from reduced intraspecific competition. This is likely to have resulted from greater per capita food intake, improved body condition and hence faster growth, thus enabling fish to achieve maturation at a presumably younger age and smaller size. Biological parameters did not vary in or out of phase with time-series of sea surface temperature in the southern Benguela, weakening the hypothesis of environmentally mediated changes in these parameters and hence providing support for the hypothesis of a direct density-dependent response by sardine.

24/24: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/doesverticalmigratorybehaviourretainfishlarvaeonshoreinupwellingecosystemsamodellingstudyofanchovyinthesouthernbenguela> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Does vertical migratory behaviour retain fish larvae onshore in upwelling ecosystems? A modelling study of anchovy in the southern Benguela
A spatially explicit individual-based model (IBM) forced by 3D temperature and current fields simulated by a hydrodynamic model of the southern Benguela upwelling region was used to test two hypotheses concerning the role of diel vertical migration (DVM) by Cape anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus larvae and pre-recruits. These hypotheses were that: (1) DVM enhances alongshore transport of anchovy eggs and larvae from the spawning grounds to the nursery area while avoiding the lethal effect of low water temperatures in the upwelling system, and/or (2) DVM enhances the transport of larvae and pre-recruits from the offshore to the onshore domain of the nursery area, and then counteracts offshore advection by favouring retention. We tracked the trajectories of virtual particles in the model and calculated a pre-recruitment index as a proxy for transport success to the nursery area (onshore and offshore) and found that the indexincreased from 10% to 20% after the incorporation of larval vertical migration into the IBM, with virtual individuals held at depths of around 60 m showing maximal pre-recruitment index values. Hence, DVM does appear to enhance transport to the nursery area (offshore) for early and late larvae. Model outputs showed coarse-scale horizontal distribution patterns of larvae by age/size class that are similar to field observations for early, small larvae but not for large larvae and pre-recruits. Observations show that early/ small larvae are located offshore whereas older/ larger larvae and pre-recruits are found closer to the continental shelf and the inner nursery grounds. This disparity between model results and field observations does not support the hypothesis that DVM is one of the mechanisms involved in the onshore movement of early life-history stages, especially for large larvae.

25/25: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemmodelingapproachesforsouthafricanfisheriesmanagement> : SCORE = 1.0637529
Doc : Ecosystem Modeling Approaches for South African Fisheries Management
A variety of ecosystem modeling approaches is available, some of which have been successfully applied to the southern Benguela ecosystem. How these models could be useful for fisheries management and how they might assist in reconciling fisheries with conservation, has not always been clear. At the end of 2002, a workshop was held to introduce the concept of an ecosystem approach to fisheries (EAF) management to South African scientists and managers. It was recommended that an EAF be implemented as an incremental process with immediate effect in South Africa. An ecosystem modeling perspective should be incorporated into existing single species management recommendations by using ecosystem models to test the implications of these recommendations. This paper describes the rich variety of ecosystem models that are being applied to the southern Benguela. Focusing on the South African small pelagic fisheries, it documents how these models are assisting the current implementation of an EAF in the southern Benguela and suggests how future management and conservation issues should be addressed in South African fisheries.

26/26: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatiotemporalvariabilityinfishinducedpredationmortalityonplanktonasimulationapproachusingacoupledtrophicmodelofthebenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Spatio-temporal variability in fish-induced predation mortality on plankton. A simulation approach using a coupled trophic model of the Benguela ecosystem
We investigate the potential predation pressure that would affect plankton communities spatially and seasonally using a coupled model, where fish-induced predation mortality is explicit. In the southern Benguela ecosystem, the fish model OSMOSE is forced by a biogeochemical model providing plankton prey fields. We analyse the resulting potential predation mortality rate on copepods. Spatially, this mortality rate is higher on the South coast (Agulhas bank) than on the West coast (upwelling zone), reflecting a lower plankton concentration compared to food requirement for fish. Temporally, fish-induced predation mortality decreases at the beginning of the upwelling season, due to a rapid increase of plankton concentration combined with a lag in the subsequent increase of fish biomass. Such strong spatio-temporal patterns in fish-induced predation mortality encourage the development of two-ways coupling between fish and plankton models for better representing the dynamics of the southern Benguela food web.

27/27: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitymodeloftrophicinteractionsinmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Viability model of trophic interactions in marine ecosystems
An attempt to use viability models for studying marine ecosystems is proposed as a possible alternative to classical ecosystem modeling. Viability models do not consider optimal solutions but instead define all possible evolutions of a dynamical system under given constraints. Applied to marine ecosystems, a viability model is formulated based on the trophic coefficients of a mass-balanced model. This requires relatively few assumptions about the processes involved and can integrate uncertainty associated with the required estimates of input parameters. An iterative algorithm is proposed to calculate the viability kernel, i.e., the envelope of all viable trajectories of the ecosystem. An application to the Benguela ecosystem is presented, considering interactions between detritus, phytoplankton, zooplankton, pelagicfis h, demersal fish and fisheries. Results show how a viability kernel could be used to better define the healthy states of a marine ecosystem, by defining what states should be avoided. The paper discusses how viability models of trophic interactions could help to define a new ecosystem-based indicator for fisheries management. It then discusses how this approach can potentially contribute to a paradigm shift that is emerging in the management of renewable resources.

28/28: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/simulationsoffishingeffectsonthesouthernbenguelafishcommunityusinganindividualbasedmodellearningfromacomparisonwithecosim> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Simulations of fishing effects on the southern benguela fish community using an individual-based model: learning from a comparison with ECOSIM
By applying an individual-based model (OSMOSE) to the southern Benguela ecosystem, a multispecies analysis is proposed, complementary to that provided by the application of ECOPATH/ECOSIM models. To reconstruct marine foodwebs, OSMOSE is based on the hypothesis that predation is a size-structured process. In all, 12 fish species, chosen for their importance in terms of biomass and catches, are explicitly modelled. Growth, reproduction and mortality parameters are required to model their dynamics and trophic interactions. Maps of mean spatial distribution of the species are compiled from published literature. Taking into account the spatial component is necessary because spatial co-occurrence determines potential interactions between predatory fish and prey fish of suitable size. To explore ecosystem effects of fishing, different fishing scenarios, previously examined using ECOSIM, are simulated using the OSMOSE model. They explore the effects of targeting fish species in the southern Benguela considered to be predators (Cape hake Merluccius capensis and M. paradoxus) or prey (anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus, sardine Sardinops sagax, round herring Etrumeus whiteheadi). Simulation results are compared and are generally consistent with those obtained using an ECOSIM model. This cross-validation appears to be a promising means of evaluating the robustness of model outputs, when separate validation of marine ecosystem models are still difficult to perform.

29/29: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitytheoryforanecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Viability theory for an ecosystem approach to fisheries
Maintenance of overall ecosystem complexity is perceived as critical to the sustainability of ecosystem use. The development of an operational basis for an ecosystem approach to fisheries, however, faces many difficulties. On the research side, the challenge is in defining proper long-term, ecosystem-related objectives; determining meaningful reference values and indicators for desirable or undesirable states of the ecosystem; and developing appropriate data collection, analytical tools and models. The ‘‘viability'' concept developed in economics by Jean-Pierre Aubin can be used to assist in the definition, selection of, and interaction among long-term objectives at an ecosystem level. It recognizes that ecosystems are complex assemblages of interacting and self-organizing natural and human components that cannot be predicted. Viability models define an ensemble of ‘‘viable states'', in contrast to undesirable states defined as such by ecological, economic, and/or social constraints. These constraints can be derived from fisheries objectives, conservation principles, scientific results of modelling, or precautionary principles, and correspond to limit reference points to be avoided. Viability theory does not attempt to choose any ‘‘optimal solution'' according to given criteria, but selects ‘‘viable evolutions''. These evolutions are compatible with the constraints in the sense that they satisfy them at each time and can be delineated by the viability kernel. The southern Benguela marine ecosystem is presented as a first attempt for the application of this theory. In defining ecosystem-based objectives (and related issues such as target reference points), it seems more difficult to reach consensus among stakeholders on what is desirable than on what is undesirable (e.g. biological or economic collapse, species extinction, displacement of local rural communities). Expressed in the negative form or as limit reference points, ecosystembased constraints can be considered simultaneously with current target reference points, such as maximum sustainable yield, using viability models. The viability approach can help to progressively integrate ecosystem considerations, such as conservation, into fisheries management. © 2004 International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

30/30: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/generalisedmodelofprimaryproductioninthesouthernbenguelaupwellingsystem> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Generalised model of primary production in the southern Benguela upwelling system
We provide a proof-of-concept demonstration using a novel method for estimating depth-integrated distributions of chlorophyll from archives of data from ships, buoys or gliders combined with remotely sensed data of sea surface temperature (SST) and surface chlorophyll a (chl a) from satellites. Our area of application has contrasting hydrographic regimes, which include the dynamic southern Benguela upwelling system and the stratified waters of the Agulhas Bank, South Africa. The method involves using self-organising maps (SOMs), a type of artificial neural network, to identify ‘typical' chl a profiles regardless of their statistical form, provided several of a similar shape have been found in the training set. These are arranged in a linear array, ranging from uniform profiles low in chl a to profiles with high surface or subsurface peaks. We then use generalised modelling to relate these characteristic profiles to remotely sensed surface features, viz. surface chl a and SST, as well as area, season, and water depth (a proxy for distance offshore). The model accounts for 87% of the variability in chl a profile and is used to predict the type of profile likely for each pixel in monthly remote sensing composites of SST and surface chl a and then to estimate integrated chl a and primary production with the aid of a light model. Primary production peaks in mid-summer, reaching 5 mgC m–2 d–1 locally, with an average over the whole area and all seasons of 1.4 mgC m–2 d–1. Seasonal variation is greatest in the southern part of the west coast, and lowest in the stratified southeast. Annual primary production for the southern Benguela region including the Agulhas Bank is ca. 156 million tC yr–1. This is the most robust estimate of primary production in the Benguela system to date because it combines the spatial and temporal coverage provided by remote sensing with realistic vertical chl a profiles.



2) Recherche du mot : Guinea ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/guinea_ecosystem)


3) Recherche du mot : Procellaria cinerea (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/procellaria_cinerea)


4) Recherche du mot : pont avant (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/front_deck)


5) Recherche du mot : Amphitretus pelagicus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/amphitretus_pelagicus)


6) Recherche du mot : Macarela alicorta (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/decapterus_macrosoma)


7) Recherche du mot : light-mantled sooty albatross (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/phoebetria_palpebrata)


8) Recherche du mot : Identifiant Wiki pour un élément donné (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/wikiId)


9) Recherche du mot : Pompano dolphinfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/coryphaena_equiselis)


10) Recherche du mot : TOPEX (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/topexPoseidon)
1/31: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/gaoanenvironmentaldatabaseandsoftwaredesignedforfisheriesbiologists> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : GAO: an environmental database and software designed for fisheries biologists
This paper presents a software (GAO) processing oceanographic data for fisheries research.
GAO is built from large datasets covering the tropical Atlantic and Indian Oceans, some
records starting in the early years of the 20th century. Observations are restricted to the upper
500m of the ocean, which encompasses most of the habitat of tunas and other top predators of
the offshore pelagic ecosystem. The datasets include oceanographic stations (temperature,
salinity, dissolved oxygen, phosphates and nitrates at depth levels), vertical temperature
profiles (MBTs, XBTs, CTDs), outputs of the OPA ocean circulation model (temperature,
salinity, current vectors, vertical velocity, at 13 depth levels), sea surface temperature and
wind-derived fields, Topex sea level anomalies and soon, a temperature-at-depth database at
grid points on the global ocean. These datasets are prepared in a way enabling data storage
and processing on the local hard disk of a standard personal computer. A Windows® software
performs extraction and queries on these databases. The goal of GAO is to be an easy-tohandle
tool for working groups in the fisheries domain, where quick reference to physical
environment is sometimes required.



11) Recherche du mot : Mediterranean ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mediterranean_ecosystem)


12) Recherche du mot : ile de sein (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ile_de_sein)


13) Recherche du mot : True tunas nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_spp)


14) Recherche du mot : median valley (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/median_valley)


15) Recherche du mot : Loutène battoir (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pholidoteuthis_boschmai)


16) Recherche du mot : Acoustique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/acoustic)
1/32: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/etudedimpactdesrejetsenmerparlesystemedemissaireprofonddeladistillerierivieredumatasaintbenoitlareunionsuiviparacoustiquedesvariationsdebiomasseenpoissonautourdelemissairedeladistillerierivieredumatasaintbenoit> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Etude d'impact des rejets en mer par le système d'émissaire profond de la Distillerie Rivière du Mât à Saint-Benoît – La Réunion. Suivi par acoustique des variations de biomasse en poisson autour de l'émissaire de la distillerie Rivière du mât à Saint-Benoît.




17) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus plumbeus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_plumbeus)


18) Recherche du mot : Remora osteochir (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/remora_osteochir)


19) Recherche du mot : taxon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/taxon)


20) Recherche du mot : White-edged grouper (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/epinephelus_albomarginatus)


21) Recherche du mot : Serra spanish mackerel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_brasiliensis)


22) Recherche du mot : Pez vela (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/istiophorus_albicans)


23) Recherche du mot : Escolier (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thyrsites_atun)


24) Recherche du mot : chaine de monts (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/seamountchain)


25) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus brevipinna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_brevipinna)


26) Recherche du mot : microzooplankton (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/microzooplankton)


27) Recherche du mot : guyot (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/guyot)


28) Recherche du mot : Paparda del Atlántico (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberesox_saurus)


29) Recherche du mot : Variola louti (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/variola_louti)


30) Recherche du mot : Atlantic pomfret (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/brama_brama)


31) Recherche du mot : Scorpionfishes nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scorpaenidae)


32) Recherche du mot : Statistiques spatiales (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/spatial_statistics)


33) Recherche du mot : plate-forme (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/shelf)


34) Recherche du mot : interaction intraspécifique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/intraSpecificInteraction)


35) Recherche du mot : cephalopoda (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/cephalopod)


36) Recherche du mot : Chlorurus sordidus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/chlorurus_sordidus)


37) Recherche du mot : Eumecichthys fiski (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/eumecichthys_fiski)


38) Recherche du mot : Histioteuthis meleagroteuthis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/histioteuthis_meleagroteuthis)


39) Recherche du mot : Thonine orientale (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/euthynnus_affinis)


40) Recherche du mot : pente (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/slope)


41) Recherche du mot : Humboldt current ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/humboldt_ecosystem)
1/33: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anchovyengraulisringensandsardinesardinopssagaxspatialdynamicsandaggregationpatternsinthehumboldtcurrentecosystemperufrom> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : Anchovy (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) spatial dynamics and aggregation patterns in the Humboldt Current ecosystem, Peru, from 1983-2003
Three indexes of spatial aggregation are developed and used to examine the aggregation pattern of sardine (Sardinops sagax) and anchovy (Engraulis ringens) in the Peruvian Humboldt Current System, determined from 36 acoustic surveys conducted from 1983 through 2003 by the Peruvian Marine Institute (IMARPE). Each index assesses a different aspect of aggregation: the concentration, the percent occupancy of space and the clustering of high-fish abundance. Both time-series correlation and tree-based clustering-regression method, classification and regression trees (CART), were used to relate each of the indexes to environmental variables (season, temperature anomaly and year). Additionally, a measure of onshore-offshore distribution, the average distance from the coast, and abundance variables (the average acoustic backscatter per occupied sampling unit, and the acoustically estimated total abundance of sardine and anchovy from IMARPE) were related to environmental factors by using CART. We show that the 1983-2003 time series can be divided into three different periods: with shifts in 1992 and in 1997-98. Sardine and anchovy showed large differences in both abundance and aggregation among these periods. Although upwelling ecosystems support dramatic and sudden changes in environmental conditions, fish responses are sometimes smoother than usually suggested and there are transition periods with concomitant high biomasses of anchovy and sardine, but with different spatial aggregation patterns. Observed relationships between environmental proxies and aggregation patterns support the habitat-based hypothesis that environmentally mediated alterations in range lead to population changes.

2/34: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystempartiielucidatingecosystemdynamicsfromtowithafocusontheimpactofenso> : SCORE = 1.7371014
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part II: Elucidating ecosystem dynamics from 1995 to 2004 with a focus on the impact of ENSO
The Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem is one of the most productive in the world in terms of fish production. Its location near to the equator permits strong upwelling under relatively low winds, thus creating optimal conditions for the development of plankton communities. These communities ultimately support abundant populations of grazing fish such as the Peruvian anchoveta, Engraulis ringens. The ecosystem is also subject to strong inter-annual environmental variability associated with the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO), which has major effects on nutrient structure, primary production, and higher trophic levels. Here our objective is to model the contributions of several external drivers (i.e. reconstructed phytoplankton changes, fish immigration, and fishing rate) and internal control mechanisms (i.e. predator-prey) to ecosystem dynamics over an ENSO cycle. Steady-state models and timeseries data from the Instituto del Mar del Perú (IMARPE) from 1995 to 2004 provide the base data for simulations conducted with the program Ecopath with Ecosim. In simulations all three external drivers contribute to ecosystem dynamics. Changes in phytoplankton quantity and composition (i.e. contribution of diatoms and dino- and silicoflagellates), as affected by upwelling intensity, were important in dynamics of the El Niño of 1997–98 and the subsequent 3 years. The expansion and immigration of mesopelagic fish populations during El Niño was important for dynamics in following years. Fishing rate changes were the most important of the three external drivers tested, helping to explain observed dynamics throughout the modeled period, and particularly during the post-El Niño period. Internal control settings show a mix of predator–prey control settings; however a ‘‘wasp-waist” control of the ecosystem by small pelagic fish is not supported.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

3/35: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystemparticomparingtrophiclinkagesunderlaninaandelninoconditions> : SCORE = 1.5199637
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part I: Comparing trophic linkages under La Niña and El Niño conditions
The El Niño of 1997–98 was one of the strongest warming events of the past century; among many other effects, it impacted phytoplankton along the Peruvian coast by changing species composition and reducing biomass. While responses of the main fish resources to this natural perturbation are relatively well known, understanding the ecosystem response as a whole requires an ecotrophic multispecies approach. In this work, we construct trophic models of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem (NHCE) and compare the La Niña (LN) years in 1995–96 with the El Niño (EN) years in 1997–98. The model area extends from 4°S–16°S and to 60 nm from the coast. The model consists of 32 functional groups of organisms and differs from previous trophic models of the Peruvian system through: (i) division of plankton into size classes to account for EN-associated changes and feeding preferences of small pelagic fish, (ii) increased division of demersal groups and separation of life history stages of hake, (iii) inclusion of mesopelagic fish, and (iv) incorporation of the jumbo squid (Dosidicus gigas), which became abundant following EN. Results show that EN reduced the size and organization of energy flows of the NHCE, but the overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators, detritus and export) of the ecosystem was maintained. The reduction of diatom biomass during EN forced omnivorous planktivorous fish to switch to a more zooplankton-dominated diet, raising their trophic level. Consequently, in the EN model the trophic level increased for several predatory groups (mackerel, other large pelagics, sea birds, pinnipeds) and for fishery catch. A high modeled biomass of macrozooplankton was needed to balance the consumption by planktivores, especially during EN condition when observed diatoms biomass diminished dramatically. Despite overall lower planktivorous fish catches, the higher primary production required-to-catch ratio implied a stronger ecological impact of the fishery and stresses the need for precautionary management of fisheries during and after EN. During EN energetic indicators such as the lower primary production/total biomass ratio suggest a more energetically efficient ecosystem, while reduced network indicators such as the cycling index and relative ascendency indicate of a less organized state of the ecosystem. Compared to previous trophic models of the NHCE we observed: (i) a shrinking of ecosystem size in term of energy flows, (ii) slight changes in overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators and detritus), and (iii) the use of alternate pathways leading to a higher ecological impact of the fishery for planktivorous fish.



42) Recherche du mot : Jureles, pámpanos nep (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/caranx_sp)


43) Recherche du mot : fish farming (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fishfarming)


44) Recherche du mot : Balaenoptera physalus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/balaenoptera_physalus)


45) Recherche du mot : Tintorera tigre (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/galeocerdo_cuvier)


46) Recherche du mot : Scombridae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scombridae)


47) Recherche du mot : Decapterus macarellus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/decapterus_macarellus)


48) Recherche du mot : Pisces (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pisces)


49) Recherche du mot : Thon ventru (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_obesus)


50) Recherche du mot : Plain bonito (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/orcynopsis_unicolor)


51) Recherche du mot : Aluterus scriptus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/aluterus_scriptus)


52) Recherche du mot : juvenile (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/juvenile)
1/36: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/geographicvariationintheforagingbehaviourdietandchickgrowthofrockhopperpenguins> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Geographic variation in the foraging behaviour, diet and chick growth of rockhopper penguins
The foraging ecology of rockhopper penguins was investigated at 3 sites marked by contrasting ecological conditions. The northern subspecies was studied at Amsterdam Island (AMS) in oceanic subtropical waters, and the southern subspecies at the Kerguelen Archipelago (KER) in a subantarctic coastal habitat and at the Crozet Archipelago (CRO) in subantarctic neritic waters. During the brooding period, females from every site mainly made daily foraging trips lasting 11 to 12 h. A principal component analysis (PCA) on 22 variables of daily foraging trips reduced these variables to 3 principal components, which were related to diving mode (PC1), foraging effort (PC2) and variation in diving behaviour (PC3). Overall, PC1 indicated that birds from AMS dived shallower, had shorter dive duration and bottom time, and were less active during less efficient dives than birds from KER and CRO. On the other hand, PC3 showed that birds from KER segregated from those of AMS and CRO by performing more uniform foraging trips with less variability in dive parameters. The PCA emphasised that most of the characteristics of daily trips and all the characteristics of foraging dives varied according to the study sites, thus stressing the importance of distinct environments in shaping the foraging behaviour of seabirds. Food loads, and accordingly chick growth, were lower at AMS, medium at CRO and higher at KER, while indices of foraging effort presented little variation. Birds at AMS fed mainly on the euphausiid Thysanoessa gregaria and on larger juvenile squids, while birds from CRO and KER preyed upon the subantarctic krill Euphausia vallentini. Diving strategies together with food loads and chick growth rates suggest that prey availability was low at AMS, intermediate at CRO and high at KER, which is in agreement with previous data on chlorophyll concentrations and zooplankton biomass. The study shows the complexity of foraging behaviour of penguins. It illustrates the importance of behavioural plasticity and suggests that it is a fundamental trait of the life history of seabirds living in highly variable environments.

2/37: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatiotemporalvariationindietmayaffectconditionandabundanceofjuvenileeuropeanhakeinthegulfoflionsnwmediterranean> : SCORE = 1.0832729
Doc : Spatio-temporal variation in diet may affect condition and abundance of juvenile European hake in the Gulf of Lions (NW Mediterranean)
Variations in space and time of juvenile hake diet (5 to 19 cm total length, TL) were investigated in the Gulf of Lions (NW Mediterranean) and related to variation in C and N stable isotope ratios, condition and abundance. Crustaceans (mysids and euphausiids) dominated the diet of the smallest juvenile hake (5 to 9 cm TL), and fishes (sardines and anchovies) of the largest juveniles (15 to 19 cm TL). The transition from a crustacean- to a fish-based diet occurred in medium-sized juveniles (10 to 14 cm TL), which preyed on both crustaceans and fishes (gobiids). These juveniles preyed on fishes when living in shallow waters (30 to 50 m), and crustaceans when located in deep waters (70 to 150 m). Although hake diet did not change over time in shallow waters (fish-based diet), in deep waters it was dominated by mysids and euphausiids in 2002 and natantids in 2003. In the size range analysed, no correlation was found between juvenile hake length and their δ13C and δ15N values, but a significant correlation with depth was observed, with higher values in shallow waters. The condition factor of medium-sized juveniles did not vary with depth in 2002, but was significantly lower in deep waters in 2003 when they fed on natantids instead of small crustaceans. Abundance of juvenile hake in the Gulf of Lions drastically decreased from 2002 to 2003, particularly in deep waters. The lower condition factor of juvenile hake in deep waters in 2003, probably owing to a lack of suitable food, might have negatively affected their survival. These results support the hypothesis that food resources influence condition and survival of juvenile hake when settled, and thus affect NW Mediterranean fisheries.

3/38: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evoluciondelascapturasdejuvenilesderabilypatudodesdelaextenciondelapescasobreobjectosbalizados> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Evolucion de las capturas de juveniles de rabil y patudo desde la extencion de la pesca sobre objectos balizados
This document analyses the distribution of the catch of small yellowfin obtained for the entire
purse seine tuna fishing fleet in the Atlantic Ocean from 1991 to 2003. Catches have been
analysed by year, month, area and fishing mode (free school or floating object), in order to
define areas, seasons and fishing mode associated with largest catches of small yellowfin and
the possible relationship with the moratoria established to reduce juvenile bigeye catches.

4/39: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/smallscalespatialandtemporalinteractionsamongbenthiccrustaceansandonefishspeciesinthebayofbiscay> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Small-scale spatial and temporal interactions among benthic crustaceans and one fish species in the Bay of Biscay
In the summer of 2004, a video survey was carried out in the northern part of the central mud bank (Grande Vasière) of the Bay of Biscay to study the small scale relationship between the dominant crustacean megafauna Nephrops norvegicus, Munida rugosa and Goneplax rhomboides and juvenile hake (Merluccius merluccius). Using a towed body, high-resolution videos were recorded in six sampling sites. Statistical modelling using generalised additive models (GAM) revealed variations in activity patterns for two species. More N. norvegicus were observed outside their burrows at dawn and somewhat at dusk (no observations during night) while G. rhomboides was less observed in the morning. In addition, reduced spatial overlap between G. rhomboides and N. norvegicus suggested reduced competition for food but also space as both are burrowing species. The observed temporal and spatial activity patterns may contribute to regulating assemblage structure as competing species may be actively foraging at different times and locations thus reducing direct competition.

5/40: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/growthratesandapparentgrowthcurvesforyellowfinskipjackandbigeyetaggedandrecoveredintheindianoceanduringtheiottp> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Growth rates and apparent growth curves, for yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tagged and recovered in the Indian Ocean during the IOTTP
This working paper analyzes the apparent growth rates of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tagged and recovered in the Indian Ocean as a function of their sizes. This study is based on the provisional recovery data released in June 2008 by the IOTC secretariat. The first step of the study describes the criteria used to eliminate various potential errors in this provisional recovery file. The analysis concentrates on the estimation of the apparent growth rates of the three species, as a function of their average sizes between tagging and recovery. This analysis does not directly target to fit a theoretical growth model to the recovery data. But apparent growth curves are deduced from growth rates, for the three species and provide size/age relationships which that may well be suitable as an input of assessment models. It was assumed that these observed results are often more realistic than a theoretical growth obtained through an inadequate growth model. These results are compared with the growth patterns previously estimated by scientists and used by the IOTC for its stock assessments. The comparison shows that yellowfin and bigeye growth are clearly following 2 stanza models and not Von Bertalanffy models, as these species are showing slower growth rates at their early juvenile stages. This 2 stanza model is also apparent for skipjack but at a lower degree. It can be noted that growth rates of yellowfin and bigeye appears to be very similar for juvenile fishes under 60 cm (and 4 kg), but later widely different, yellowfin showing a much faster growth than bigeye.

6/41: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteonthestockstructureofpacificbigeyetunatobeusedinstockassessments> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Note on the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna to be used in stock assessments
This paper reviews and discusses the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna in relation with the prospects of stock assessment analysis of this population. The analysis of fishery data, mainly the spatio temporal bigeye catches by gear and by sizes, indicates that the present 150°W frontier based on historical and administrative results does not appear to be a convenient biological frontier. Our conclusion is that the present lack of significant tag recoveries across the 150°W frontier should not be considered as being significant, due to the limited numbers of bigeye presently tagged and to the great distances between present tagging locations. North South movements of adult bigeye are also a potential source of mixing between eastern and western bigeye populations. It is hypothetized that there could be an increased net flow of juvenile bigeye towards the WCPO due to the increased number of FADs in the western EPO. Our conclusion is that all the bigeye stock assessments by WCPFC and the IATTC should preferably be conducted in a unified best model and at a Pacific wide scale. A large scale tagging programme covering the distribution area of the entire bigeye population and fully coordinated between WCPFC and IATTC would be necessary to obtain realistic and age specific movement patterns at a Pacific wide level. Management actions of the bigeye stocks should also be fully coordinated between the Western and Eastern stocks, because of the probably weak biological frontier and also because of the bigeye long life span. The long term management benefits or failures will probably be shared by WCPFC and IATTC.

7/42: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/tunanaturalmortalityasafunctionoftheiragethebigeyetunathunnusobesuscase> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Tuna natural mortality as a function of their age: the bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) case
This document reviews the age-specific levels and variability of natural mortality (Mi) in tuna
populations. Based on a review of the literature concerning this fundamental parameter, the U
shape curve of Mi expected for all living creatures as a function of their sizes and ages is
discussed. High levels of Mi are a biological rule for larvae and juveniles: minimal rates of Mi
tend to be observed before first spawning, followed by increasing Mi during spawning and for
older fishes due to biological senescence. The biological factors contributing to Mi variability
of tunas are presented and discussed. The paper later compares the profiles and levels of Mi
presently used for bigeye tuna by tuna Commissions. The biological validity of differences in
the Mi at juvenile ages between different species is discussed (for instance small yellowfin and
small bigeye). VPA are conducted on catch-at-age vectors typical of bigeye fisheries, using
various vectors of Mi. A subsequent yield-per-recruit analysis tends to confirm that the
potential negative effects of catching large amount of small bigeye tuna are highly dependent
on the Mi vector. It is concluded that scientists should better take this major biological
uncertainty for bigeye into account.

8/43: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/investigationofforaginghabitsandpreyselectionbyhumpbackwhalesmegapteranovaeangliaeusingacoustictagsandconcurrentfishsurveys> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Investigation of foraging habits and prey selection by humpback whales (Megaptera novaeangliae) using acoustic tags and concurrent fish surveys
Tags containing acoustic time-depth transmitters (ATDT) were attached to four humpback whales near Kodiak, Alaska. Tags allowed for whale dive depths to be recorded in real time. Acoustic and mid-water trawl surveys were conducted concurrent with tagging efforts within the study area to quantify available fish resources and describe potential prey selection by humpback whales. Recorded dives were grouped through visual assessment and t-tests. Dives that indicated likely foraging occurred at a mean maximum depth of 106.2 m with 62% of dives occurring between 92 m and 120 m. Acoustic backscatter from fish surveys was attributed to potential humpback prey based on known target strength values and 10 net tows. Capelin comprised 84% of the total potential prey abundance in the region followed by age 0 (12%) and juvenile pollock (2%), and eulachon (<1%). Although horizontally segregated in the region, both capelin and age 0 pollock were distributed at depths exceeding 92 m with maximum abundance between 107 m and 120 m. The four-tagged humpbacks were found to forage in areas with greatest capelin densities but bypassed areas of high age 0 pollock abundance. The location and diving behavior of tagged whales suggested that whales were favoring capelin over pollock as a prey source.

9/44: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

10/45: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/habitatsuitabilityforjuvenilecommonsolesoleasolealinthebayofbiscayfranceaquantitativedescriptionusingindicatorsbasedonepibenthicfauna> : SCORE = 1.144416
Doc : Habitat suitability for juvenile common sole (Solea solea, L) in the Bay of Biscay (France): a quantitative description using indicators based on epibenthic fauna.
This study describes the spatial distribution of young-of-the-year common sole based on beam trawl surveys conducted in late summer in the coastal and estuarine parts of the Bay of Biscay (France). Previous studies showed that habitat suitability for juvenile common sole varies according to physical factors and notably bathymetry and sediment structure. Nevertheless, the use of these descriptors alone to model habitat suitability led to considerable unexplained variability in juvenile common sole distribution. Hence, the epibenthic macro- and megafauna collected during beam trawl surveys was taken into account to improve models of habitat suitability for these juvenile flatfish. Ecotrophic guilds based on life traits (behaviour, mobility and feeding) were used to develop generic indicators of trawled benthic fauna. These synthetic descriptors were used in generalized linear models of habitat suitability in order to characterize the distribution of juvenile common sole. This approach significantly improved the description based on physical descriptors and allowed demonstrating that young common sole distribution is related to the density of trawled deposit and suspension feeders and also of carnivorous organisms. These models provide a reliable method to develop indicators of nursery habitat suitability from trawl survey data with the aim of assessing and surveying their quality.

11/46: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/relationshipsbetweenbenthicmacrofaunaandhabitatsuitabilityforjuvenilecommonsolesoleasolealinthevilaineestuarybayofbiscayfrancenurseryground> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Relationships between benthic macrofauna and habitat suitability for juvenile common sole (Solea solea, L.) in the Vilaine estuary (Bay of Biscay, France) nursery ground
Coastal and estuarine systems are among the most threatened by human activities which damage their ecological function and, in particular, their nursery role for many marine species. In this context, the protection of these vital ecosystems is a critical issue for the management of fisheries resources. To that aim, functional approaches have to be developed that make it possible to assess habitat suitability and quality. The common sole, Solea solea (L.) was selected as an indicator species to identify the features of coastal and estuarine nursery habitats in the Bay of Biscay (France). Previous studies have shown that young-of-the-year (YOY) sole are strongly dependent upon various abiotic factors, and especially bathymetry, sediment cover and the extent of river plumes. We investigated whether taking into account biological variables, based on benthic macrofauna biomasses aggregated into trophic group, may improve the description of the juvenile sole distribution in the Vilaine estuary nursery. Results from Generalised Linear Models demonstrated the importance of integrating these biological variables in the determination of juvenile habitats at a local scale. The abundance of YOY sole was correlated with an index of the benthic invertebrates biomass and, more specifically, with the biomass of suspension feeders. This result was reinforced by a one-dimensional spatial statistical analysis, which pointed out the similar distribution of invertebrate macrobenthos and juvenile sole along the upstream/downstream gradient of the estuary. Moreover, the inter-annual variations of abundance and distribution of juveniles were synchronous with those of the macrobenthos.

12/47: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thedevelopmentofanoperationalmodelandsimulationprocedurefortestinguncertaintiesintheatlanticbigeyethunnusobesusstockassessment> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : The development of an operational model and simulation procedure for testing uncertainties in the Atlantic Bigeye (Thunnus obesus) stock assessment
Atlantic bigeye is a highly migratory species widely distributed through the whole Atlantic.
Recent assessments conducted by the ICCAT SCRS are highly uncertain due to the large
uncertainties in biological parameters, such as M, as well as in fishery statistics (e.g., IUU
fleets, juvenile catch) or abundance indexes. Similar uncertainties can be found in the Indian or
Pacific stocks. The development of an operational model has been recommended by different
regional fishery organizations as a good approach to investigate the sensitivity of the
assessment results to the uncertainties in the different inputs. This document presents an
operational model for the Atlantic bigeye as part of a simulation framework that will allow the
performance of management strategies based on current and improved biological knowledge
and management procedures to be evaluated.

13/48: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/standardizedcpueforjuvenileyellowfinskipjackandbigeyetunafromtheeuropeanpurseseinefleetintheatlanticoceanfromto> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Standardized CPUE for juvenile yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tunafrom the european purse seine fleet in the atlantic ocean from 1991 to 2006
In this document three abundance indices are obtained for the juveniles of tropical tunas (yellowfin (≤30Kg.), skipjack and bigeye of European purse seine fishery in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006 using generalized linear models (delta-lognormal model). Catch and effort data come from detailed daily logbooks. Catch rates are modelled using the delta lognormal model. The method estimates a combined CPUE of the three species from aggregated catches, and the proportion of catches for each species, so the final individual abundance indices are calculated multiplying both estimators for each species. Explanatory variables used in the analysis are: year, zone, quarter, harvest capacity, country, and starting date of the vessel. Year and zone are the most explanatory factors of variability in CPUEs and vessel characteristics have a minor explanatory effect in observed catch rates.

14/49: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/madepreliminaryinformationonanewecprojecttoproposemeasurestomitigateadverseimpactsofopenoceanfisheriestargetinglargepelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : MADE: preliminary information on a new EC project to propose measures to mitigate adverse impacts of open ocean fisheries targeting large pelagic fish
A particular attention has been paid worldwide on longline fisheries as they catch considerable amount of by-catch (seabirds, turtles, sharks, etc.). Seabird and turtles by-catch mitigation methods have now been established in many fisheries worldwide, but similar efforts must be put to reduce by-catch of sharks. In the same ecosystems, another issue attracts the attention of international tuna commissions: the use of drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs). These FADs are responsible for major catches of juvenile tuna and non target pelagic species (sharks). Finally, the effects of thousands of FADs released regularly in the tropical oceans are unknown, and must be studied to estimate if they impact the biology of pelagic species. The European open ocean tropical and Mediterranean pelagic fishery (Spain, France, Portugal, Italy, Greece) is one of the main sources of catch, income and employment for the European fishery, with interactions with many developing countries. The MADE project was set up to develop measures to mitigate adverse impacts of fisheries targeting large pelagic fish in the open ocean: purse seiners using FADs and longliners. This 4-year project, started in mid-2008 within the 7th EC Framework Programme, and is a cooperative research carried out under the coordination of IRD, including 13 scientific institutions belonging to 6 European Countries and 2 ICPC countries in three different areas (Mediterranean Sea, Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean). Two main categories of mitigation measures will be studied: spatial management issues (e.g. closure areas) and technical solutions to reduce by-catch in these fisheries. The main concept of MADE is to follow a multi-disciplinary and comparative approach, combining biological and technological studies with economical analyses in different sites (Indian and Atlantic oceans, Mediterranean Sea), with a particular effort to closely associate fishers.

15/50: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/stablecarbonandnitrogenisotopeanalysisofthenephropsnorvegicusmerlucciusmerlucciusfishinggroundsinthebayofbiscaynortheastatlantic> : SCORE = 0.30707902
Doc : Stable carbon and nitrogen isotope analysis of the Nephrops norvegicus/Merluccius merluccius fishing grounds in the Bay of Biscay (Northeast Atlantic)
The trophic structure of the benthic ecosystem of the Grande Vasière (Great Mud Bank), a heavily trawled area in the Bay of Biscay, is largely unknown. To better understand the biotic interactions between exploited species (mainly Norway lobster, Nephrops norvegicus, and European hake, Merluccius merluccius) and their competitors and prey, we applied a dual stable carbon (13C/12C) and nitrogen (15N/14N) isotope analysis to determine trophic levels and differences in the potential food sources of species in the benthic and demersal communities. Five main groups of species constitute the basis of the trophic structure. They are distributed in three main trophic levels: primary consumers; secondary consumers including N. norvegicus and juvenile M. merluccius; and top predators including adult M. merluccius (δ15N = 14.5). The large differences in δ13C values within the primary consumers attest to two different food components: a pelagic component composed of fresh sedimenting particulate organic matter, which mainly supplies supra- and epi-benthic suspension feeders, and zooplankton, and a benthic component, which mainly supplies deposit feeders. For the predators, the target species, and their competitors, diet changes during the life-span are reflected by differences in isotope values for the size classes.

Résumé : La structure trophique de l'écosystème benthique de la Grande Vasière, une importante zone de pêche au chalut de fond du Golfe de Gascogne, demeure encore méconnue. Afin de mieux comprendre les interactions biotiques entre les espèces exploitées (principalement la langoustine, Nephrops norvegicus, et le merlu, Merluccius merluccius) et leurs concurrents et proies, une analyse des isotopes sables du carbone (13C/12C) et de l'azote (15N/14N) a été réalisée pour étudier les différents niveaux trophiques et mettre en évidence l'existence de différentes sources de nourriture potentielles des communautés benthiques et démersales. Cinq principaux groupes trophiques constituent la base de la structure de la chaîne alimentaire. Trois niveaux trophiques ont été identifiés : consommateurs primaires, consommateurs secondaires (N. norvegicus et les juvéniles de M. merluccius) et les supers prédateurs comme les adultes de M. merluccius (δ15N = 14,5 ). Les grandes différences de δ13C au sein des consommateurs primaires attestent de deux différentes sources de nourriture : l'une pélagique composée de matière organique particulaire fraîche sédimentant, qui alimente principalement les suspensivores supra- et épi-benthiques, et le zooplancton et l'autre benthique qui alimente les déposivores. Les changements de régimes alimentaires des prédateurs, l'espèce cible et leurs compétiteurs, au cours de leur vie, se traduisent par des différences isotopiques entre les différentes classes de taille.

16/51: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/visualcensusesoftropicalfishaggregationsonartificialreefsslateversusvideorecordingtechniques> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Visual censuses of tropical fish aggregations on artificial reefs: slate versus video recording techniques
Artificial coastal reefs were initially installed off Reunion Island (SW Indian Ocean) in order to attract and catch small pelagic fish of economic importance for the local fishery. These artificial reefs also attract a high density of juvenile coral reef fish, especially after recruitment. Because of high species richness and density, a suitable method of evaluating diversity and abundance in such assemblages is needed. An experiment was conducted in situ for 1 year in order to test which of the two visual techniques, slate or video recording, would be the most suitable for sampling artificial reefs. For the quantitative study, a rope framework (four belt transects each measuring 24×3 m) was used to ease the movement of the divers. To avoid bias due to time variations, the study was conducted under limited time in situ. The advantages and disadvantages of the two techniques regarding the accuracy of qualitative and quantitative results are discussed. The qualitative study results show that the slate technique is the most accurate one for determining species richness. In the quantitative study, factors such as species characteristics (ecological type), attractiveness (relationship between fish and diver) and abundance of fish communities around the artificial reefs appear to influence our results on the comparison of the two techniques. Of 13 [`]permanent' (observed in more than 75% of dives) species, 6 returned a similar frequency of detection by slate and video (Lutjanus kasmira, Lutjanus bengalensis, Priacanthus hamrur, Chaetodon kleinii, Heniochus diphreutes, Mulloides vanicolensis); these were then selected for comparison of the techniques using quantitative data. The correlation between video and slate census results is high, but, in comparison with the slate census, the video census underestimates abundance, especially for low values. A corrected index is proposed to remedy this underestimation; it could be used for video surveys conducted on species responding well to video detection (as below).



53) Recherche du mot : Listao (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/katsuwonus_pelamis)


54) Recherche du mot : Trophic ecology (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/trophic_ecology)
1/52: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.

2/53: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparativeforagingecologyandecologicalnicheofasuperabundanttropicalseabirdthesootyternsternafuscatainthesouthwestindianocean> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Comparative foraging ecology and ecological niche of a superabundant tropical seabird: the sooty tern Sterna fuscata in the southwest Indian Ocean
Over 6-million pairs of sooty terns Sterna fuscata breed once a year in the southwest Indian Ocean, mostly on three islands of the Mozambique Channel (Europa, Juan de Nova and Glorieuses) and in the Seychelles region. Seasonal reproduction in either winter or summer is the dominant strategy in the area, but nonseasonal reproduction also occurred in some places like at Glorieuses Archipelago. The feeding ecology of the sooty tern was investigated during the breeding seasons to determine whether terns showed signiWcant diVerences in their trophic ecology between locations. Regurgitations were analyzed to describe the diet of individuals when breeding, and stable isotopes and mercury concentrations were used to temporally integrate over the medium-term of the trophic ecology of both adults and chicks. Overall, the diet was composed of fish, flying squid and fish larvae in different proportions. At Europa and Aride in the Seychelles, where winter reproduction occurs, large epipelagic prey like flying fish or squid dominated the diet. At Juan de Nova, sooty terns reproduce in summer and rely mostly on fish larvae. At Glorieuses (non-seasonal breeding), the diet was intermediate with fish larvae and flying squid being important prey items. The stable-carbon and nitrogen isotope values in blood confirm the differences observed in dietary analysis, and demonstrate different feeding strategies between colonies...δ13 C values of feathers showed spatial segregation between birds from the Mozambique Channel and the Seychelles region. Terns from the Seychelles had also higher δ15 N values. Feather δ13 C values also suggest a significant shift from summer to wintering habitat for birds from Juan de Nova. This study emphasizes the high phenotypic plasticity of the species, which may explain its numerical dominance in all tropical waters of the World's Ocean.

3/54: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyoftropicaltoppredatorsintheindianocean> : SCORE = 4.9132643
Doc : Trophic ecology of tropical top predators in the Indian Ocean


4/55: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/nitrogenandcarbonisotopevaluesofindividualaminoacidsatooltostudyforagingecologyofpenguinsinthesouthernocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Nitrogen and carbon isotope values of individual amino acids: a tool to study foraging ecology of penguins in the Southern Ocean
We determined the δ15N and δ13C values of individual amino acids (AAs) isolated from chick blood of 4 penguin species that forage in different oceanic regions (from the subtropics of the Indian Ocean to Antarctica) to test if: (1) the δ15N values of phenylalanine (δ15N phe) revealed different foraging areas among the species; (2) the difference between glutamic acid and phenylalanine δ15N values (Δδ15Nglu-phe) accurately predicted trophic levels; and (3) the δ13C value of AAs could resolve species foraging locations, similar to bulk δ13C values. The δ13C values of all AAs decreased with latitude, were positively correlated with bulk δ13C data, and, therefore, tracked the isotopic baseline. However, we were not able to discern additional ecological information from these δ13C values. In contrast, the δ15N values of AAs distinguished the isotopic value of the nitrogen at the base of the food web from the trophic level of the consumer, providing new insight for the study of the trophic ecology of seabirds. The difference in the bulk δ15N values of northern and southern rockhopper penguins Eudyptes chrysocome ssp. was due to both a difference in their foraging location (different δ15N phe) and their trophic levels (different Δδ15Nglu-phe). The δ15N phe values of king Aptenodytes patagonicus and Adélie penguins Pygoscelis adeliae were higher than those of rockhoppers, which could reflect a foraging on mesopelagic prey for king penguins and, in the highly productive Antarctic shelf waters, for Adelie penguins. The Δδ15Nglu-phe accurately reflected the relative trophic level of penguins, but further work is required to determine the trophic enrichment factors for compound-specific isotope analysis.



55) Recherche du mot : ICCAT (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/groupIattcAtlantic)
1/56: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewoffisherydatainrelationwiththeimplementationoftheseasonalmoratoriumonfadfisheriesintheatlantic> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : An overview of fishery data in relation with the implementation of the seasonal moratorium on FAD fisheries in the Atlantic
This paper presents a set of figures related to the tuna catches by species and by area taken by purse seiners in the Atlantic during recent
years. Most of these figures are based on the EU purse seiners as this
fleet has been the most important in the area and always providing good TASK 2 data to the ICCAT. Its main goal is to show the major changes in the purse seine fisheries during recent years, and especially in relation with the moratorium on FAD fishing, partial EU or total ICCAT, that has been + or – well implemented during the period novembre 1997-January 2005. These figures and maps are based on the basic ICCAT TASK2 data base, and they could easily be rehandled following potential new needs expressed by the ICCAT WGs

2/57: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemapproachtofisheriesabriefoverviewandsomeconsiderationsforitsapplicationiniccat> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries: a brief overview and some considerations for its application in ICCAT
During the last SCRS plenary meeting, the sub-committee on environment suggested to present
a document on the ‘Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries' (EAF). This document firstly recalls the
general scientific and institutional background of EAF, then we propose a synoptic view of
EAF, including four main domains: governance, exploitation, resources and impacts on
ecosystems. The way that EAF is tackled within the various tuna commissions is then
summarised. Finally, we rapidly examine the way the SCRS could cope with EAF issues and
we suggest to merge the sub-committee on environment with this on by-catch into a single subcommittee
on ecosystem.

3/58: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/scrstowardsclearandfirmiccatreportsonatlanticbluefintunastocksanopenlettertothebluefingroupandtothescrs> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : SCRS 2006: Towards clear and firm ICCAT reports on Atlantic bluefin tuna stocks? An open letter to the bluefin group and to the SCRS
This paper is based on the fact that the recent SCRS reports on bluefin tuna are not very clear
to show the gravity of the ICCAT problems in its statistics, research and assessment for this
species. The Atlantic bluefin population is now probably facing in the short or medium terms a
high risk of potentially irreversible over-fishing. However this severe risk is not clearly visible
in the recent SCRS analysis because of the difficulties to run a realistic stock assessment on
these stocks when most of the basic data are missing. This paper makes a recommendation that
SCRS should write its bluefin report using a non standard specific format using well selected
indicators and not its traditional VPA. This SCRS report should also show the serious
conservation risks presently faced by bluefin in the Atlantic. This paper also reaches conclusion
that a precautionary approach should be developed by SCRS in order to make firm
management recommendations that are need to conserve bluefin tuna.

4/59: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ayearclasscurveanalysistoestimatemortalityofatlanticbluefintunacaughtbythenorwegianfisheryfromto> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : A year-class curve analysis to estimate mortality of Atlantic bluefin tuna caught by the Norwegian fishery from 1956 to 1979
At the ICCAT symposium on bluefin tuna that held in Santander in April 2008, Tangen et al.(2009) presented a first quantification of the fishing effort deployed by the Norwegian fishery targeting bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea. Using a year-class curve analysis on the Norwegian CPUE, this document presents the first estimates of mortality rates of Atlantic bluefin tuna that migrated north from the mid-1950s to the late 1970s. The results indicate that bluefin tuna would have experienced a total mortality rate (Z) of 0.2 to 0.4 yr-1 (i.e. F at around 0.3 yr-1) during the late 1950s, 0.2 yr-1 during the 1960s and 0.1 yr-1 afterwards (assuming M=0.1 yr-1). These results appear to be rather robust and consistent with the VPA estimates from the 1970s and early 1980s, albeit slightly higher. The fishing mortality rates experienced by bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea during the period 1956-1979 were thus significant (so that local overfishing may have occurred, especially during the 1950s), but lower than F estimated by year-class curve analysis in recent years (i.e. 1992-2004). This comparison between two distant periods of time during which BFT was significantly (highly) exploited tend to confirm, with new pieces of information, the pessimistic conclusions of the 2006 stock assessment.

5/60: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evaluationoftheperformanceandrobustnessofvpabasedstockassessmentandmsybasedmanagementstrategytoprocesserrortheatlanticbluefintunacasestudy> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Evaluation of the performance and robustness of VPA-based stock assessment and MSY-based management strategy to process error : The Atlantic bluefin tuna case study
An integrative simulation framework was built to evaluate the consequences of variability attributable to changes in carrying capacity or the stock's migration pattern of Atlantic bluefin tuna on the ICCAT stock assessment and management procedures. We also evaluated the performances of stock assessment methods with respect to their ability to provide good estimates of MSY, FMSY and BMSY and tested the robustness of the current ICCAT management strategy to uncertainty about the true dynamics and historical exploitation levels. The results clearly indicate that the VPA performances were seriously impaired if the long-term variations in catches are due to changes in migration/availability. There is further considerable confounding between the underlying dynamics and increasing effort that makes it difficult to draw any inference about the actual dynamics based on commercial catch data. Reference points based on F (e.g., F0.1) were less biased and more precise than those based on yield and/or SSB and were also more robust to uncertainty about the true dynamics than absolute values of F and SSB. However, F0.1 cannot indicate past and current levels of exploitation relative to FMSY when there is uncertainty about the dynamics. Therefore, while reference points such as F0.1 may be good proxies for FMSY, the MSY concept may be difficult to make operational. A size limit strategy generates greater yields than the more sophisticated F0.1, but lower SSB. However, the performances of both strategies were strongly dependent on the period over which they are implemented relative to the intrinsic cycle of the population. We finally stressed that the performances and robustness of management strategies also depend on concrete objectives, such as fleet composition, gear selectivity and economic constraints.

6/61: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteontheyearlycatchesbycountryandgearofthefismfranceivorycoastsenegalmoroccofleetduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 1.0637529
Doc : Note on the yearly catches by country and gear of the FISM (France - Ivory Coast - Senegal - Morocco) fleet during the 1969-1990 period
The current ICCAT Task 1 statistics database does not include any record of catch for Senegal and Ivory Coast during the period 1969-1990 as these data were historically included in the aggregated catch data of the so-called “FISM” fleet under the flag ‘EC.France'. Landing and logbook data were used to reallocate the FISM fleet catch between countries. This analysis shows the need to clarify the Task 1 ICCAT statistics by country and historic gear, and ask France, Ivory Coast and Senegal to declare their respective catch during 1969-1990. This change in the ICCAT database will not affect the total catch of Task 1 statistics.

7/62: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecologicalriskassessmentforspeciescaughtiniccatfisheries> : SCORE = 2.4566321
Doc : Ecological Risk Assessment for species caught in ICCAT fisheries.


8/63: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofthegrowthparametersoftheskipjacktunakatsuwonuspelamisamongareasintheeasternatlanticanalysisfromtaggingdatawithinametaanalysisapproach> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Variability of the growth parameters of the skipjack tuna (/Katsuwonus pelamis/) among areas in the eastern Atlantic: Analysis from tagging data within a meta-analysis approach
In order to assess the latitudinal variability in growth of the eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), conventional tagging data collected by the International Commission of the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) since the 1960s are reanalyzed using a modified version of the von Bertalanffy-Fabens growth model. An analysis of the latitudinal patterns of recaptures showed that the lowest mixing rate between northern and southern regions was evidenced at 10◦ N Latitude. Since it is theoretically admitted that growth parameters L∞ and K are negatively correlated, we substituted L∞ into the growth equation model by a simple bioenergetic function of K fitted from existing studies on skipjack growth parameters. The likelihood for the meta-analysis of growth is combined with the likelihoods from the two regional tagging data with the aim of estimating simultaneously K in both areas and to transfer adequately uncertainties associated with the different data sets. From this study, it was showed that fish inhabiting waters south of 10◦ N latitude can be expected to grow generally larger but at slower rate than in the North (L∞ = 112.34 cm vs. 89.38 cm, and K = 0.14 vs. 0.38, respectively). Our results are consistent with the range of growth estimates obtained in the Atlantic Ocean and in different parts of the World's oceans. In contrast, the estimates of L∞ and K done in the Senegalese region in the 1980s within the framework of the Skipjack Year Program, and traditionally applied by ICCAT, are not supported by the present study. The findings concerning the phenotypic plasticity exhibited by growth of skipjack among latitudinal regions suggest potential differences in fish population productivity and consequently imply that non-conventional stock assessment methods such as catch-at size/growth transition matrix per region could be used to assess the responses of skipjack to exploitation.

9/64: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somecluesforcorrectingthetaggingdatabaseoftropicaltunas> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Some clues for correcting the tagging data base of tropical tunas
Conventional “spaghetti” tags have been used for a long time in Tropical Atlantic Ocean and have been collected by ICCAT secretary with the collaboration of scientists and fishermen. Despite, careful examination of the information provided at release and at recapture some errors may persist into the ICCAT tagging data base. The aim of this short note is to highlight some types of errors existing in the tagging data bases for tropical tunas and to suggest potential clues for corrections.

10/65: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteuponthehistoricalstandardisedfishingeffortsinthefisandfrenchpurseseinetaskstatisticsthathavebeenroutinelysubmittedtotheiccatsecretariatduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 1.144416
Doc : Note upon the historical standardised fishing efforts in the FIS and French purse seine task2 statistics that have been routinely submitted to the ICCAT secretariat during the 1969-2005 period
This paper examine the types of fishing efforts that have been submitted since 1969 to the
ICCAT Secretariat for the French fleet of purse seiners, as well for the Senegalese, Ivorian and
Moroccan purse seiners. This analyzes confirms that the effort data submitted to the ICCAT
during the period 1969 to now are heterogeneous over time. This document explains why the
fishing efforts of the 1969-1979 period cannot be modified or corrected or re-estimated. It also
recommends that all fishing efforts since 1980 should be well normalized and resubmitted to the
ICCAT, and using various units of fishing effort. Various potential types of fishing efforts that
could be used for this revision of the historical Task 2 statistics are presented and submitted to
the ICCAT Tropical Tunas Species Group before doing this revision. The historical
stratification between small and large purse seiners should be kept. The document also
analyzes the statistical problems linked to the mixture of four flags in the historical so called
FISM fleet. The recommendation is that all task1 and task2 purse seine statistics at least since
1980 and possibly since 1969 should preferably be broken into the corresponding catch and
effort statistics of each flag.

11/66: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thedevelopmentofanoperationalmodelandsimulationprocedurefortestinguncertaintiesintheatlanticbigeyethunnusobesusstockassessment> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : The development of an operational model and simulation procedure for testing uncertainties in the Atlantic Bigeye (Thunnus obesus) stock assessment
Atlantic bigeye is a highly migratory species widely distributed through the whole Atlantic.
Recent assessments conducted by the ICCAT SCRS are highly uncertain due to the large
uncertainties in biological parameters, such as M, as well as in fishery statistics (e.g., IUU
fleets, juvenile catch) or abundance indexes. Similar uncertainties can be found in the Indian or
Pacific stocks. The development of an operational model has been recommended by different
regional fishery organizations as a good approach to investigate the sensitivity of the
assessment results to the uncertainties in the different inputs. This document presents an
operational model for the Atlantic bigeye as part of a simulation framework that will allow the
performance of management strategies based on current and improved biological knowledge
and management procedures to be evaluated.

12/67: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/historicaldatabaseonsoviettunalonglinetunaresearchintheindianandatlanticoceansfirstresultsofyugnironmfsdatarescueproject> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Historical database on Soviet tuna longline tuna research in the Indian and Atlantic oceans (first results of YugNIRO-NMFS data rescue project)
YugNIRO (formerly AzCherNIRO, till 1988), Kerch, Ukraine started tuna research in the Indian Ocean in early 1960-ies and such studies continued till early 1990-ies. For research purposes medium-sized fishing trawlers converted for pelagic longlining were used. Recent data inventory accounted about 130 research, searching, and fishing pelagic longline cruises for 1961-1989 targeted tunas (generally Thunnus), billfishes (Makaira, Tetrapturus, Xiphias gladius), pelagic sharks (Carcharhinus, Isurus, Alopias, Prionace glauca, Galeocerdo cuvier). Other pelagic species were recorded as bycatch. More than 5200 longline sets with about 2.5 millions nominal hooks were shot. For every research cruise the following data were colleted on set by set basis: number of hooks, hooks distribution by depth, total catch, and catch by species. Almost all the fish caught were measured, weighed, and analyzed. Estimated catch depth of every fish was recorded. Environmental data and MBT station data generally available. Due to lack of computer equipment and limited funding throughout years of data sampling this valuable data were stored on paper as logbooks of longline catches and biological analysis. In spite the careful treatment by YugNIRO personnel, there were a danger of loss for these unique data due to natural deterioration of media under time impact, accidents, natural disasters, other extraordinary situations, etc. In late 2002 under support of NMFS and NFWF data “rescue” project which principal goals were preparation of computer database and make this data available for joint YugNIRO/SWFSC analysis and for IOTC and ICCAT was started. “Rescue” is carried out by digitizing of the data, which exist only as manuscripts, in order to store them on computer media in the form of relational database. This project is at the final stage at presents, since most of the data available are in the digital form. These data represent unique dataset for Indian Ocean which could be used as an independent long-term biological and fisheries database as well as additional information to databases of IPTP/IOTC and national databases of other research center. Data and database description, database structure, first results of the database creation, data digitizing, and analyses, and potential access to the data is presented in this paper.

13/68: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/sardaradumodeleconceptuelaumodelephysique> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Sardara, du modèle conceptuel au modèle physique
Introduction:
La base de données, nommée "Sardara 1" a pour objectif de réunir et gérer, de la manière la
plus efficace possible, les collections de données thonières internationales que les pays
soumettent au Organisations régionales des pêches (ORP) ad hoc : données de prises
(corrigées ou non pour la composition spécifique), d'efforts et de tailles des captures selon
les strates spatio-temporelles standards pour l'ensemble des flottilles qui les soumettent, et
pour toute la période où elles existent. Ces données constituent la base fondamentale de
toutes les évaluations de stocks de thons et/ou d'un suivi bioéconomique des pêcheries. Si
ces données sont publiques et en théorie disponibles auprès des ORP concernées (ICCAT,
CTOI, IATTC et WPFC), elles sont de facto parfois difficiles d'accès et le plus souvent
délicates à manipuler. La grande hétérogénéité des collections originelles constitue la
difficulté majeure dont le processus de conception cherchera à s'affranchir. La base de
données "Sardara" constitue l'avant dernier maillon du serveur ALIPA.

14/69: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/reunioniccat> : SCORE = 1.2410451
Doc : Réunion ICCAT
Plan de la conférence: 

• Pêches thonières et recherches dans l'Atlantique
avant les années 1960
• Processus ayant conduit à la création de l'ICCAT
de 1960 à 1966
• Montée en puissance scientifique de l'ICCAT:
débuts administratifs de 1966 à 1971, décennie
1972-1981, ICCAT moderne post 1981
• Bilan global des pêcheries ICCAT après 40 ans
• Bilan scientifique après 40 ans d'ICCAT
• Conclusion: l'ICCAT quel futur?

15/70: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ameliorationdesdonneesstatistiquesdelapechethonieredanslazonedelatlantiqueesttropical> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Amélioration des données statistiques de la pêche thonière dans la zone de l'Atlantique Est Tropical
This paper presents the results of the Regional Workshop for the improvement of the statistics
relevant to ICCAT in the costal countries of the central area of Africa. The Workshop was held
in Senegal in 2006 and was financed by the JDIP.



56) Recherche du mot : Hydroacoustique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/hydroacoustic)


57) Recherche du mot : Diretmichthys parini (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diretmoides_parini)


58) Recherche du mot : Daisy parrotfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/chlorurus_sordidus)


59) Recherche du mot : Grey Petrel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/procellaria_cinerea)


60) Recherche du mot : Dasyatidae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/dasyatidae)


61) Recherche du mot : Seine (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seine)
1/71: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usinglocalecologicalknowledgelektoprovideinsightonthetunapurseseinefleetsoftheindianoceanusefulformanagement> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Using local ecological knowledge (LEK) to provide insight on the tuna purse seine fleets of the Indian Ocean useful for management
The purse seine fishery in the Western Indian Ocean is dominated by Spanish and French vessels that rely heavily on the use of drifting fish aggregation devices (DFADs) to capture tropical tuna species (skipjack, yellowfin and bigeye tuna). This study uses local ecological knowledge (LEK) obtained through standardized interviews of fishing masters to compare and characterize the body of local ecological knowledge, fishing technology and fishing strategies of both fleets, with the goal of obtaining useful information for the management of the fishery. A notable difference between fleets was the number of DFADs actively monitored per vessel at any given time, which was much higher for Spanish vessels (ca. 60 versus 20 DFADs). Spanish vessels also achieved higher vessel CPUE (catch per DFAD set) than their French counterparts. The use of supply vessels to manage, monitor and protect productive DFADs, and the latest satellite-based technology to track and remotely monitor DFAD aggregations is restricted to the Spanish fleet. The French do not use supply vessels and deploy less sophisticated tracking buoys. These technological disparities resulted in some fishing strategy differences between both fleets, but few differences were found in the knowledge of tuna behavior accumulated by the fishers.

2/72: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lessonsfromthepastinvestigatinghistoricaldatafrombluefintunafisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Lessons from the past : investigating historical data from bluefin tuna fisheries
In 1963, the leading fisheries targeting Atlantic bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus) in the Norwegian Sea and North Sea suddenly collapsed without any warning. Little is known about this collapse and several hypotheses have been put forward, such as changes in migratory routes, recruitment failure or eradication of a sub-population: all of these hypotheses could result from natural causes and/or from overfishing. To help explain this mysterious event, an original data set of the main bluefin tuna fisheries of the 20th century, including total catch and size composition of the catch, has been compiled and analysed. The results reveal a strong and unambiguous link between the Nordic purse seine and Spanish trap fisheries during the 1950s and 1960s. However, this link vanished during the 1970s. In addition, the North-west Atlantic and Mediterranean trap fisheries appeared also to be partially connected to the Nordic fisheries. During the 1950s and 1960s, the main migration routes of bluefin tuna were probably from the Mediterranean spawning grounds and from the West Atlantic coasts to the Norwegian coast and North Sea, which were probably a key feeding ground at that time. The analyses also lead to the conclusion that interactions between environmental, trophic and fishing processes have probably affected bluefin tuna migration patterns which would have finally caused the Nordic fisheries collapse. This retrospective analysis finally leads to an original 2013 albeit more speculative 2013 hypothesis concerning Atlantic bluefin tuna population structure, therein conjectured as an assemblage of at least three sub-populations.

3/73: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multispeciesassessmentoftunascaughtinthetropicalatlanticpurseseinefisherysensitivityofproductionmodelstobiasesinreportedcatches> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Multi-species assessment of tunas caught in the Tropical Atlantic purse Seine fishery: sensitivity of production models to biases in reported catches
In this document, different scenarios of uncertainties in a multispecies fishery are presented. Uncertainties have been considered in the estimation of the species composition of the tropical tuna catch as well as in the total catch. Although three species (yellofin, skipjack and bigeye) are involved in the tropical tuna fishery, only uncertainties in the bigeye vs skipjack have been taken into account, in order to simplify the analysis. Regarding the total catch, bigeye has been considered as the species with higher uncertainty due to the IUU catch component. Analyses have been focused in evaluating the sensitivity of the current assessment methods to these uncertainties. Taking into account that the two sources of uncertainty affect the age structure of the catch as well as the total catch, surplus production methods have been applied in the assessment.

4/74: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingperformanceandinformationexchangebetweenfishingvesselswithartificialneuralnetworks> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Modeling performance and information exchange between fishing vessels with artificial neural networks
A fishery is simulated in which 20 artificial vessels learn to make decisions through an artificial neural network in order to search for schools of fish among the available fishing grounds. Three scenarios with different degrees of variability, including uncertainty in the searching process, are considered. The simulation model accounts for the main features commonly observed in a purse seine tuna fishery in a time and a space scale. Vessel strategies are chosen by the artificial neural network, on the basis of the following decision criteria: information concerning time searching in a specific area, previous performance in this area, knowledge of the quality of surrounding fishing grounds, presence of other vessels fishing actively and trip length. An analysis of the effects of sharing information between vessels is done and this was compared to individual artificial fishing vessels. In general, a group of fishing vessels show higher performance than individual vessels. A convex performance comparison curve for several group sizes is found in all scenarios considered. The optimum group size differs according to the variability of the artificial world. At bigger group sizes performance decreases, probably due to competition and depletion effects of some fishing grounds.

5/75: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewoffisherydatainrelationwiththeimplementationoftheseasonalmoratoriumonfadfisheriesintheatlantic> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : An overview of fishery data in relation with the implementation of the seasonal moratorium on FAD fisheries in the Atlantic
This paper presents a set of figures related to the tuna catches by species and by area taken by purse seiners in the Atlantic during recent
years. Most of these figures are based on the EU purse seiners as this
fleet has been the most important in the area and always providing good TASK 2 data to the ICCAT. Its main goal is to show the major changes in the purse seine fisheries during recent years, and especially in relation with the moratorium on FAD fishing, partial EU or total ICCAT, that has been + or – well implemented during the period novembre 1997-January 2005. These figures and maps are based on the basic ICCAT TASK2 data base, and they could easily be rehandled following potential new needs expressed by the ICCAT WGs

6/76: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/frenchpurseseinetunafisheriesstatisticsintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : French purse-seine tuna fisheries statistics in the Indian Ocean, 1981-2005
This document presents a summary of the main general French purse-seiners activities in
the Indian Ocean since 1981: effort, catch by species and fishing type (log and free
swimming schools), catch per unit of effort, sampling and mean weights for the main species.

7/77: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/frenchpurseseinetunafisheriesstatisticsintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : French purse-seine tuna fisheries statistics in the Indian Ocean, 1981-2005
This document presents a summary of the main general French purse-seiners activities in
the Indian Ocean since 1981: effort, catch by species and fishing type (log and free
swimming schools), catch per unit of effort, sampling and mean weights for the main species.

8/78: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evoluciondelascapturasdejuvenilesderabilypatudodesdelaextenciondelapescasobreobjectosbalizados> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Evolucion de las capturas de juveniles de rabil y patudo desde la extencion de la pesca sobre objectos balizados
This document analyses the distribution of the catch of small yellowfin obtained for the entire
purse seine tuna fishing fleet in the Atlantic Ocean from 1991 to 2003. Catches have been
analysed by year, month, area and fishing mode (free school or floating object), in order to
define areas, seasons and fishing mode associated with largest catches of small yellowfin and
the possible relationship with the moratoria established to reduce juvenile bigeye catches.

9/79: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialdistributionofcubicepspauciradiatusperciformesnomeidaeinthetropicalindianoceananditsimportanceinthedietoflargepelagicfishes> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Spatial distribution of Cubiceps pauciradiatus (Perciformes:Nomeidae) in the tropical Indian Ocean and its importance in the diet of large pelagic fishes
The bigeye cigarfish (Cubiceps pauciradiatus) is a small pelagic nomeid of the tropical world ocean, often recovered in the stomach contents of top predators such as tunas, billfishes and marine mammals. In the Indian Ocean, a few studies have investigated the biology and the ecology of this species that is one of the most abundant fish of the intermediate trophic levels. In this paper, we investigated the spatial distribution of C. pauciradiatus in the Indian Ocean using pelagic trawl catches carried out between 20°N and 45°S, and the importance of bigeye cigarfish in the diet of 9 piscivorous fishes sampled by different fishing gears in the western part of the Indian Ocean. The highest densities were observed along the eastern coast of Africa and in the Arabian Sea (87 000 individuals per square nautical mile) during the South-West Monsoon and in the eastern part of the Seychelles archipelago (62 200 ind. square nmi) during the North-East Monsoon. Small sized bigeye cigarfish (20–80 mm SL) was a regular and abundant prey (20 to 200 ind. per stomach) for schooling predators exploited by purse seine fishery such as large yellowfin and bigeye tunas chasing prey near the sea surface. Large sized bigeye cigarfish (61–150 mm SL) occurred in small numbers (3 to 20 ind. per stomach) in the stomach contents of swordfish and of large yellowfin and bigeye tunas caught by longline sets at great depths. Large concentrations of bigeye cigarfish occurred in zones of high productivity, and that species constituted seasonally a strong link in the transfer of energy from low to high trophic levels in this part of the Indian Ocean.

10/80: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/krigingofthelatentprobabilityofabinomialvariableapplicationtofishstatistics> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Kriging of the latent probability of a binomial variable: application to fish statistics
The tropical tuna purse seine fishery is characterised by two fishing modes: one on free swimming tuna schools and one on schools associated with Fish Aggregating Devices (FAD). Our purpose is thus to understand how the two fishing modes are spatially distributed in the Indian Ocean and how this distribution has changed over the seasons and the years. Conditional on the latent probability that a set could be realized on a FAD, the number of sets on FAD was considered as independent Binomial random variables. Such a hierarchical model allows reducing the instabilities encountered when working on empirical ratios based on few observations. We discussed the connections with “kriging with measurement errors” and, the determination of the mean and the variance of the latent variable. The use of 22 years of fishing statistics (1985 – 2006) indicated a small year to year variability between variograms of the latent variable. A single model was thus used to krige the probability for fishing sets to be on log school. The time series of the kriging maps highlighted areas of systematic large probability of the second fishing mode which was consistent with expert knowledge but question the stationarity assumption made on the latent variable.

11/81: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/congenerspecificaccumulationandtrophictransferofpolychlorinatedbiphenylsinspidercrabfoodwebsrevealedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Congener-specific accumulation and trophic transfer of  polychlorinated biphenyls in spider crab food webs revealed by stable isotope analysis
Polychlorobiphenyls (PCB) and stable isotopes (δ15N and δ13C) were analyzed in the spider crab (Maja brachydactyla) food web from the Iroise Sea (Western Brittany) and the Seine Bay (Eastern English Channel). PCB concentrations were all significantly higher in organisms from the Seine Bay than those from the Iroise Sea. PCB patterns were strongly related to the feeding mode of the species, and increased influence of higher chlorinated congeners was highlighted with trophic position of the organisms. PCB concentrations (lipid normalized) were significantly related to the isotopically derived trophic level (TL) in spider crab food webs. The highest trophic magnification factors (TMFs) were calculated for the congeners with 2,4,5-substitution, and were lower in the Seine Bay compared to the Iroise Sea. The confrontation of PCB and TL data also revealed biotransformation capacity of decapod crustaceans for specific congeners based on structure–activity relations.

12/82: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabiladultothunnusalbacaresdelaflotadecercotropicaleuropeaeneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Actualizacion de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil adulto (thunnus albacares) de la flota de cerco tropical europea en el oceano atlantico de 1980 a 2006
This document presents a standardized index update of adult yellowfin (>30 kg) of tropical purse seine fleets in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006. The data used were taken from spear fishing logbooks and detailed information of the fleet. The standardization has been carried out by generalized linear models (GLM) using the delta model. The standardized indices are obtained from the GLM model estimations: one is calculated from the least squares means (LSMeans) and another from the annual averages of the adjusted values. The variability of the latter is lower. Therefore, in this case, it is a more adequate index to be used in assessment models. The year, country, category, age of vessel and catches of skipjack tuna, which is the other target species of these fleets, were considered as explanatory variables.

13/83: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwppt> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : IOTC 2008-WPPT-26
Standardized yellowfin and skipjack catch rates of the European purse seine fleets in the Indian ocean from 1984 to 2007 using generalized linear models are presented. Different indexes based on logbooks data for the yellowfin free school catch and yellowfin and skipjack FAD catch have been standardized considering time-space strata, vessel category, as well as environmental effects as explicative variables.
1

14/84: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimatesofhistoricchangesintotalmortalityandselectivityforeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamisfromlengthcompositiondata> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Estimates of historic changes in total mortality and selectivity for  Eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) from length composition data
Catch-at-size data of the eastern Atlantic skipjack were used to estimate changes in total mortality from 1969 to 2007. We used a transitional model of mean length that generalized the Beverton-Holt mortality estimator to allow change in mortality rate under nonequilibrium conditions. Then, from homogeneous periods of time, length-converted catch curves were used to access qualitative changes in selectivity patterns for two surface fisheries (the baitboat fishery operating from Dakar, Senegal, and the European and associated purse seine fisheries). To explore the impact of catch on the mortality rate, a Bayesian change-point analysis was conducted on the catch time series to detect concomitant variation between mortality rates and catch. Finally, potential causes of these changes are discussed in relation to the implementation of new fishing technology, such fish aggregating devices (FAD). The general pattern depicted by total mortality is in agreement with previous knowledge on this fishery: a state of complete or practically complete exploitation during the nineties followed by the decrease in nominal purse seine fishing effort in the last decade, combined with the effect of a seasonal moratorium on FAD fishing operations. There was no evidence of a change in selectivity between the two contrasted periods of time considered: 1969-1979 and 1986-1999; the second period being characterized by the introduction of new technology onboard vessels. In contrast, the covariation over time between total catch and mortality rate three years later highlights the effect of the fishing pressure on the stock of eastern Atlantic skipjack.

15/85: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climaticoscillationsandtunacatchratesintheindianoceanawaveletapproachtotimeseriesanalysis> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Climatic oscillations and tuna catch rates in the Indian Ocean: a wavelet approach to time series analysis
We analysed the influence of climatic oscillations
[based on the Indian Oscillation Index (IOI)] on
monthly catch rates of two tropical tuna species in
the equatorial Indian Ocean. We carried out wavelet
analysis, an efficient method of time series analysis
to study non-stationary data. Catch per unit of effort
(CPUE) of bigeye tuna was computed from Japanese
longline statistics from 1955 to 2002 in the equatorial
Indian Ocean and CPUE of yellowfin tuna
was derived from industrial purse seine statistics
from 1984 to 2003 in the Western Indian Ocean.
Wavelet analyses allowed us to quantify both the
pattern of variability in the time series and nonstationary
associations between tuna and climatic
signals. Phase analyses were carried out to investigate
dependency between the two signals. We
reported strong associations between tuna and
climate series for the 4- and 5-yr periodic modes, i.e.
the periodic band of the El Nin˜o Southern Oscillation
signal propagation in the Indian Ocean.
These associations were non-stationary, evidenced
from 1970 to 1990 for bigeye, and from 1984 to
1991 and then from 1993 to 2001 for yellowfin.
Warm episodes (low negative IOI values) matched
increases of longline catch rates of bigeye during the
1970–1990 time frame, whereas the strong 1997–
1998 warm event matched a decrease of purse seine
catch rates of yellowfin. We discussed these results
in terms of changes in catchability for purse seine
and longline.

16/86: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/driftingfishaggregationdevicescouldactasanecologicaltrapfortropicaltunaspecies> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Drifting fish aggregation devices could act as an ecological trap for tropical tuna species
Purse seine fishing on fish aggregating devices (FADs) has expanded considerably during
the last 15 yr in tropical tuna purse seine fisheries, and FADs currently account for about 70% of
their reported tuna catches. The scientific community has expressed concern over the consequences
of this fishing practice in terms of yield per recruit and suspected detrimental effects on FADassociated
tunas. To explore possible detrimental effects, we compared stomach fullness, fish plumpness,
growth rate, and migration behaviour between free school and drifting FAD-associated tunas
for skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis and yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares caught in the Atlantic
and Indian Oceans. Significant differences in fish plumpness and individual growth rates were found,
suggesting that individuals associated with drifting FADs were less healthy than those in free schools.
Since stomach fullness indicated that tunas associated with FADs eat less than those in free schools,
the difference in growth rate and condition could be the consequence of altered feeding patterns. For
each species, significant changes in migratory direction and displacement rates were observed in the
presence of drifting FADs. These findings support the hypothesis that FADs act as a super-stimulus,
misleading tunas to make inappropriate habitat selection. However, further studies are required to
investigate the long-term effect of FADs on the entire life cycle of tunas.

17/87: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofstablesignaturesdcanddnintwospidercrabpopulationsmajabrachydactylainwesterneurope> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Variability of stable signatures (d13C and d15N) in two spider crab populations (Maja brachydactyla) in Western Europe
The ontogenic variations of nitrogen and carbon stable isotopic signatures (δ15N and δ13C) were investigated in two spider crab (Maja brachydactyla) populations inhabiting in different biotopes of Western Europe. The Iroise Sea population is localized in Western Brittany and characterized by a seasonal migration occurring on a large bathymetric and habitat gradient while the Seine Bay population, in the Eastern English Channel, remains in a more homogeneous environment during its migration. In the Iroise Sea population, δ13C values increased significantly both with body size and age, revealing a shift towards “benthic-component” prey with spider crab growth. On the contrary, neither body size nor ageing gave rise to a significant trophic level change (derived from the δ15N). In this M. brachydactyla population, the seasonal migrations from coastal waters in summer to offshore habitats in winter involved significant but slight differences in both δ13C and δ15N. In the Seine Bay population, low variations for both carbon and nitrogen were recorded related to either sex or size or seasonal migration. Thus, the δ13C and δ15N variability in the spider crab depends on the availability and diversity of prey in its different living habitats, as well as on the morphological aptitudes of individuals to feed on prey (individual's size).

18/88: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statitiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileependantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Statitiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée pendant la période 1991-2006
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of the European and similar baitboat and
purse seine fleets7 from 1991 to 2006. The data in this document for 1991 to 2006 have been revised and
completed for 2005-2006. The species breakdown of the catches in 2006 is provisional and should be
subject to verification. The document gives information on the characteristics of the fleets (fishing type
by category, in number), fishing effort by type and size category of the vessels, the number of 1o areas
visited by the fleet per year during the period, the catches, standardized effort and the CPUEs by
species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as well as the catches by size classes per quarter for
each of the three species and for the two gears, and the average individual weights by species (by
quarter and by gear). Fishing maps are also provided indicating the deployment of the fleet in the
eastern Atlantic as well as the time-area breakdown of the catches of the European and similar purse
seiners in 2006, compared to the average of 2001-2005.

19/89: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/wherehavethetagsgonesimulationoftagssintagasimplemodeltoestimatethenumberandsizeoftunastaggedbytherttpiothatarecurrentlystillalive> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Where have the tags gone? SImulatioN of TAGs (SINTAG): A simple model to estimate the number and size of tunas tagged by the RTTP-IO that are currently still alive.
The large scale Regional Tuna Tagging Programme in the Indian Ocean (RTTP-IO) has reported a 14% return rate of the 168.000 tuna tagged between 2005 and 2007. Approximately 96% of these returns have been reported from the purse seine fishery. This has lead to speculation that the tagged tuna have not yet reached sizes at which they could be caught by longliners (bigeye and yellowfin) or by the baitboat fishery (skipjack) A simple exponential decay and growth model has, however, indicated that this may not be the case, and tagged individuals should be available to these fisheries. It would thus appear that tagged tuna are not being reported by the longline and baitboat fisheries and an effort should be made to increase the level of tag reporting in those fleets in order to maximise the usefulness of the data obtained from the RTTP-IO.

20/90: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fishbehaviourfromfishersknowledgethecasestudyoftropicaltunaarounddriftingfishaggregatingdevicesdfads> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Fish behaviour from fishers' knowledge: the case study of tropical tuna around drifting fish aggregating devices (DFADs)
Purse-seining for tropical tuna is one of the most technologically advanced fisheries in the world. The purpose of this study was to apply local ecological knowledge (LEK) to assist in the planning of future in situ studies of fish behaviour around drifting fish aggregating devices (DFADs) by prioritizing research topics, thereby reducing the number of potential hypotheses to explore. Interviews of fishing masters of the purse-seine fleets working in the western Indian Ocean provided an alternate, independent, and previously unexplored source of behavioural information, specifically on the attraction, retention, and departure behaviours of tuna schools in relation to DFADs. Most fishing masters agreed that the maximum attraction distance of a DFAD is approximately 10 km and generally agreed to the following statements. Tuna form distinct schools under FADs, commonly segregated by species and size. The main reasons for the departure of tuna aggregations from FADs are changes in currents or FAD movements and location in relation to physical or oceanographic features. The number of actively monitored DFADs at sea in the western Indian Ocean was estimated at approximately 2100. Incorporating fishers into the planning and design stages of future research projects will facilitate collaborative and integrated approaches.

21/91: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/levytrajectoriesofperuvianpurseseinersasanindicatorofthespatialdistributionofanchovyengraulisringens> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Levy trajectories of Peruvian purse-seiners as an indicator of the spatial distribution of anchovy (Engraulis ringens)
Analogous to other top predators foraging on patchy resources, the spatial behaviour of fishers provides information on the spatial organization of fish. Focusing on the Peruvian anchovy purse-seine fishery, vessel monitoring system data are used to describe fishing vessels' trajectories, and acoustic survey data to characterize anchovy spatial distribution. Vessel trajectories were analysed in terms of move-length distribution, whereas fish distribution was characterized by spatial extent, concentration, and fractal dimension. Fishers perform Levy flights that can be characterized by a single statistic (mu); mu is significantly correlated with the fractal dimension of fish distribution. It is argued that the Levy statistic is a good candidate for an ecosystem indicator that might contribute to realtime monitoring of ecosystems.

22/92: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparedresponsesofpurseseineandlonglinetunafisheriestoclimaticanomaliesintheindianocean> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Compared responses of purse seine and longline tuna fisheries to climatic anomalies in the Indian Ocean, 1980-2005


23/93: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8010912
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

24/94: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/outlookofoceanclimatevariabilityinthewesttropicalindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Outlook of ocean climate variability in the West tropical Indian Ocean, 1997‐2008
The trend of the major environmental parameters during the decade 1997‐200 is presented. The decade analysed is characterized by two large anomalous events related to the Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) events that dramatically reduced the catch rates of the purse seine fleets in the West Indian Ocean (WIO). During the IOD events, the WIO shows above normal sea surface temperature, deeper than normal thermocline and depleted chlorophyll concentration, denoting unfavourable foraging conditions in the surface layer. The most recent IOD event (2006‐2007) did not reach the magnitude of that of 1997‐98 but purse seine catches declined sharply from the previous years. Such a decline is undoubtedly related to anomalous environmental conditions affecting catchability, but the hypothesis of a reduced biomass after some years of very high catches may be an additional reason to this decline.

25/95: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleexploitationofamajortunaconcentrationintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Mesoscale exploitation of a major tuna concentration in the Indian Ocean
The paper analyzes the daily catch, fishing effort and fish size data of the purse seine fleet fishing in the
western Indian Ocean in February 2005, when a major concentration of tuna occurred and was heavily exploited by
this surface fishery. This tuna concentration event occurred over a period of just 12 days, in an area of about 3500
square nautical miles located to the west of the Seychelles. This small stratum produced a total catch of 22 000 t,
corresponding to 6.5% of the total fishing mortality of all adult yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) in the entire Indian
Ocean in 2005. Sets were made mainly on free schools and the catch mainly composed of large yellowfin tuna. The
average CPUE and the average catch per set were very large, 65 t and 85 t per fishing day, respectively. This “event” took
place in a precise area where a high concentration of chlorophyll had been localized 18 days before. The subsequent
concentration of tuna schools probably arose due to the high densities of their prey feeding on this large phytoplankton
biomass. This phytoplankton bloom was observed at the edge of an anticyclonic eddy, but its origin and its high density
cannot be fully explained by available environmental data. The adult yellowfin were probably at a reproductive stage
and actively feeding on the local food chain generated by the phytoplankton bloom. Such an event is extreme, but
typical of tuna purse seine fisheries where fleets often search for such tuna patches. These events play an important role
in tuna fisheries due to the increase in fishing effort and fishing efficiency of purses seiners, both of which increase their
impact on the resource. The fine scale study of such events and their improved integration into tuna stock assessments
is recommended.

26/96: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethonierefrancaisedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière française durant la période 1991- 2006
This document presents a statistical summary of the fleet activity of the French baitboats and purse
seiners from 1991 to 2006. The historical data for the FIS6 fleet from 1969 to 1990 was described in a
previous document (Diouf et Fonteneau 1997). The data from that document have been revised and
completed for 2006. The document gives information on the fleet characteristics (fishing type by
category, in number), fishing effort by type and size category of the vessels, the number of 1o areas
visited by the fleet per year during the period, the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for
the baitboats and purse seiners, as well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three
species and for the two gears, and the average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear).
The species breakdown of the catches in 2006 is provisional and should be subject to verification. Some
fishing maps area also presented indicating the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic, as well as the
time-area breakdown of the French baitboat and purse seine catches in 2006, as compared to the
average of 2001-2005.

27/97: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwpeb> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : IOTC WPEB - 2008/016
Data collected through 20 observer fishing trips were used to quantify
the number of silky sharks taken as bycatch by the French tuna
purse seine fishery of the Western Indian Ocean. 1,385 immature
silky sharks of which 85% was discarded at sea and 15% retained
aboard, were observed as bycatch during 685 fishing sets observed
from October 2005 to April 2008. Zero-inflated regression models
fitted with Bayesian methods were used to explain silky shark
bycatch as a function of fishing mode (free vs. fishing aggregating
device-associated (FAD) schools), area, and season. Model results
showed that silky sharks occurred in 24% of the fishing sets with an
expected number of sharks per set estimated to be 2.02 ± 0.05. The
3 covariates were found to significantly explain both the presence
and number of silky sharks caught by the French purse seiners. FAD
was shown to have a strong positive effect on the number of silky
sharks caught, an expected value of 4.3 sharks being taken in FADassociated
schools versus 0.3 shark in free schools. There were
significant differences in silky shark bycatch between seasons and
areas with higher bycatch than average in July-September and in the
South-East Seychelles area while fewer sharks were expected to be
caught in the North Somali area. Results are discussed within the
context of the ecosystem approach to fisheries for the analysis of
ecosystem effects of fishing.

28/98: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/catchandeffortdataonsoviettunapurseseinefisheriesintheindianoceanbasedondailyradioreportsdatabase> : SCORE = 1.013309
Doc : Catch and effort data on Soviet tuna purse seine fisheries in the Indian Ocean based on daily radio reports database.
General description of YugNIRO database on Soviet tuna purse seine fisheries in the Indian Ocean is presented. Principal sources of the information for database were daily radio reports on operations and on catch composition of purse seiners. Vessel types, temporal schedule of its activities, total catch and data quality, database structure is described. This paper is a supplement for a fine-scale (1-degree/month) catch statistics and activities dataset, presented to IOTC Secretariat.

29/99: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteuponthehistoricalstandardisedfishingeffortsinthefisandfrenchpurseseinetaskstatisticsthathavebeenroutinelysubmittedtotheiccatsecretariatduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Note upon the historical standardised fishing efforts in the FIS and French purse seine task2 statistics that have been routinely submitted to the ICCAT secretariat during the 1969-2005 period
This paper examine the types of fishing efforts that have been submitted since 1969 to the
ICCAT Secretariat for the French fleet of purse seiners, as well for the Senegalese, Ivorian and
Moroccan purse seiners. This analyzes confirms that the effort data submitted to the ICCAT
during the period 1969 to now are heterogeneous over time. This document explains why the
fishing efforts of the 1969-1979 period cannot be modified or corrected or re-estimated. It also
recommends that all fishing efforts since 1980 should be well normalized and resubmitted to the
ICCAT, and using various units of fishing effort. Various potential types of fishing efforts that
could be used for this revision of the historical Task 2 statistics are presented and submitted to
the ICCAT Tropical Tunas Species Group before doing this revision. The historical
stratification between small and large purse seiners should be kept. The document also
analyzes the statistical problems linked to the mixture of four flags in the historical so called
FISM fleet. The recommendation is that all task1 and task2 purse seine statistics at least since
1980 and possibly since 1969 should preferably be broken into the corresponding catch and
effort statistics of each flag.

30/100: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/commontrendsmodelincatchperunitofeffortforthetropicaltunas> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Common trends model in catch per unit of effort for the tropical tunas
We explored the usefulness of Dynamic factor analysis (DFA) to detect common patterns in the sets of CPUEs for Atlantic yellowfin (Thunnus albacores) and for eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), respectively. For yellowfin, the most appropriate model, in terms of AIC, identified two common trends. The 10 yellowfin CPUE series could be divided into 3 groups based on factor loadings. The grouping corresponds in part to the geographic location of the fisheries (i.e., the western Atlantic area for group 1 and the northeastern tropical Atlantic region for group 2). The fact that the first group is constituted by CPUEs obtained from 3 different fishing gears (pole and line, purse seine and longline), operating at different depth levels, suggests that the regional trend reflects more a sub-population response to a local exploitation rate than to environmental conditions. In light of the present results, the CPUEs should be combined respectively into two regional indices before performing a unique combined index. For skipjack, results are less conclusive and further studies with explanatory factors are required to account for the fact that this species is seldom targeted by the tuna fisheries.

31/101: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bycatchanddiscardsoftheeuropeanpurseseinetunafisheryintheindianoceanestimationandcharacteristicsfortheperiod> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : By-catch and discards of the European purse seine tuna fishery in the Indian Ocean. Estimation and characteristics for the 2003-2007 period
By-catch and tuna discards estimation and characteristics for the various species groups are presented for the European purse seine tuna fishery (France and Spain) for the period 2003-2007. Data were collected through French and Spanish observer programs representing a total of 1,958 observed fishing sets. Total by-catch and tuna discards estimation were derived from a stratification based on fishing mode, seasons (quarters) and spatial area. The estimation relied on raising factors based on major commercial tuna catch expressed in tons per 1000 t of tuna landed. Total tuna discards and by-catch was estimated to be about 9,585 t corresponding to 35.5 t per 1000 t of tuna landed. Tuna discards represents 54 % (19.2 t/1000 t) of the total amount, followed by fishes (33.7 %, 12.0 t/1000 t), sharks (10.1, 3.6 t/1000 t), billfishes (1.5 %, 0.5 t/1000 t), and rays (0.7 %, 0.2 t/1000 t). By-catch species composition, main species length and sex structure, and percentage of utilization are also presented. Total by-catch estimates and ratios are compared with those previously published in the literature. The issue raised by the choice of a consistent extrapolation method is finally discussed

32/102: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

33/103: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

34/104: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofyellowfinthunnusalbacarestunastocksfisheriesandstockstatusworldwide> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : An overview of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) tuna stocks, fisheries and stock status worldwide
This paper makes a comparison of yellowfin
stocks worldwide, taking into account the biology of the
species as estimated in each ocean and the changes and
trends in the yellowfin fisheries observed in each ocean. This
paper presents and discusses a wide range of data and
figures comparing yellowfin stocks and fisheries in the four
« oceans », namely the Atlantic, Indian, Eastern and Western
Pacific. It shows an overview of the changes observed in each
ocean for the main yellowfin fisheries, longliners and purse
seiners: sizes of area fished, CPUE, changes in size
distribution and average weights, etc. The major biological
parameters estimated in each ocean by scientists, such as
natural mortality at age, spawning, sex ratio and growth are
presented and discussed. The methods used to assess
yellowfin stocks and the methodological uncertainties in the
yellowfin stock assessment are compared and discussed. The
conclusion is that it remains difficult to fully understand if the
increased catches of yellowfin observed world wide in most
oceans should be explained (1) by the effects of increasing
fishing zones, (2) by increased fishing effort and/or increased
fishing efficiency (3) and/or by increased biological productivity
of oceans or by a combination of these parameters. The
serious uncertainty in the understanding of the real
relationship between the longline and purse seine fisheries are
also discussed.

35/105: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/standardizedcpueforjuvenileyellowfinskipjackandbigeyetunafromtheeuropeanpurseseinefleetintheatlanticoceanfromto> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Standardized CPUE for juvenile yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tunafrom the european purse seine fleet in the atlantic ocean from 1991 to 2006
In this document three abundance indices are obtained for the juveniles of tropical tunas (yellowfin (≤30Kg.), skipjack and bigeye of European purse seine fishery in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006 using generalized linear models (delta-lognormal model). Catch and effort data come from detailed daily logbooks. Catch rates are modelled using the delta lognormal model. The method estimates a combined CPUE of the three species from aggregated catches, and the proportion of catches for each species, so the final individual abundance indices are calculated multiplying both estimators for each species. Explanatory variables used in the analysis are: year, zone, quarter, harvest capacity, country, and starting date of the vessel. Year and zone are the most explanatory factors of variability in CPUEs and vessel characteristics have a minor explanatory effect in observed catch rates.

36/106: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thegambiariverestuaryareferencepointforestuarinefishassemblagesstudiesinwestafrica> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : The Gambia River Estuary: a reference point for estuarine fish assemblages studies in West Africa
The Gambia River is one of the last aquatic ecosystems in West Africa that has not yet been affected by strong environmental changes and human disturbances. In contrast to the neighbouring Casamance and Sine Saloum estuaries, the Gambia estuary is free of major climatic perturbation and remains a “normal” estuary, with a salinity range from freshwater to 39. The present paper aims to study the spatial and seasonal variability of fish assemblages in this estuary in terms of bio-ecological categories and of their relation with some environmental variables. Four surveys were conducted, from June 2001 to April 2002, in order to cover the major hydroclimatic events, at 44 sampling sites along the lower, intermediate and upper zones of the Gambia estuary (up to 220 km). Fish assemblages were sampled using a purse seine net, fish were identified to species level and environmental variables such as water depth, transparency, salinity, temperature and percentage oxygen saturation were measured. The main spatial structure of the fish assemblages and its seasonal changes were first studied using the STATIS-CoA multitable method. The combination of fish assemblages and environmental variables was then analysed using the STATICO method, designed for the simultaneous analysis of paired ecological tables. A total of 67 species were observed, belonging to all bio-ecological categories characterizing West African estuaries. The marine component of the community was largely dominant throughout the estuary, while the freshwater component was permanently observed only in the upstream zone. The main spatial structure was a longitudinal gradient contrasting marine and freshwater affinity assemblages, with strong seasonal variations. The most complete gradient was observed in December, at the beginning of the dry and cool season, while in June, at the end of the dry and warm season, there was the least structured gradient. The role of salinity, always correlated with temperature, was emphasized, while turbidity appeared to be another important factor. Oxygen and depth did not play a major role at the estuary scale. The relative importance of the bio-ecological categories varied according to the season and the distance to sea. Stable fish assemblages were observed in the lower zone at the end of the dry season, in the upper zone during the flood and in the middle zone throughout the year. In some situations, a relative inadequacy between fish assemblages and their environment was noticed. The present study contributes to the definition of the functioning of a “normal” West African estuary, the Gambia estuary, with balanced effects of marine and freshwater influences and the presence of all bio-ecological categories. The Gambia estuary can therefore be considered to be a reference ecosystem for further comparisons with other tropical estuarine ecosystems, subjected to natural or artificial perturbations.

37/107: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thefrenchtropicalpurseseinefisheriesobserverprogram> : SCORE = 2.4566321
Doc : The French tropical purse seine fisheries observer program


38/108: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.

39/109: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialversustemporalpatternsinfishassemblagesofatropicalestuarinecoastallaketheebrielagoonivorycoast> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Spatial versus temporal patterns in fish assemblages of a tropical estuarine coastal lake: The Ebrié Lagoon (Ivory Coast)
The fish assemblages of the Ebrié lagoon (Ivory Coast) were sampled by experimental fishing over the entire lagoon using a purse seine net. The sampling was conducted in the two main hydroclimatic seasons for this ecosystem, i.e. in the dry season (March-April) and in the wet season (August-September). The results obtained showed a fish assemblage organized around a consistently occurring group of twenty species. When analysed in terms of ecological categories, the seasonal influence led to a cycle in the assemblages from freshwater to marine around this permanent species pool, with a seasonal renewal of the assemblage. At the scale of the lagoon, there were variations in the composition of the assemblages that clearly distinguished the western part from the eastern one. The limit was situated at the Vridi canal, a wide artificial channel permanently connecting the lagoon to the sea. To the west, the assemblage was characterised by a strong spatial uniformity and low seasonal variability. To the east, the assemblage formed two different entities; one assemblage with pronounced freshwater affinities occurring in a side arm and the other assemblage with great seasonal variability under the alternating influence of seawater in the dry season and freshwater in the wet season. This part of the lagoon functioned somewhat like a typical estuary.

40/110: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethonierefisdurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière FIS durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary of FIS6 baitboat and purse seine fleet activities
from 1991 to 2004. The historical data from 1969 to 1990 were described in a previous
document (Diouf and Fonteneau 1997). The data collected from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2004. The document provides indications regarding fleet
characteristics (type of gear by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category of
the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for baitboats and purse seiners, as well as
the catches by different size classes by quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, and the average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic, as well as the time-area
breakdown of French purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average situation of 1999-
2004.

41/111: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fadiofishaggregatingdevicesasintrumentedobservatoriesofpelagicecosystemsaeuropeanunionfundedprojectondevelopmentofnewobservationalinstrumentsandthebehavioroffisharoundfads> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : FADIO (Fish Aggregating Devices as Intrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) : a European Union funded project on development of new observational instruments and the behavior of fish around FADs
Associative behavior is a major component of the life of pelagic fish. Tropical tuna and other
species are often found in association with floating objects, with other animals, and with topographic
features such as seamounts. Because fish are more abundant, occur in larger schools, or are easier to catch
when aggregated, fishermen extensively use these associations to increase their catches. More than 50%
of the world tuna catches are made from schools associated with floating objects.
There is a clear need for new technologies to study these associations and to propose innovative
methods of management. The European Union has funded a project to study the requirements of future
assessment tools and to develop prototypes. The project: FADIO1 (Fish Aggregating Devices as
Instrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) has conducted five extensive field surveys of the
Western Indian Ocean in conjunction with the large-scale purse seine fishery operating on drifting FADs
that operates in this region.
The objectives of FADIO are to develop new observation and assessment tools and collect data
on the behavior of pelagic fish around drifting FADs. Two categories of instruments are being developed
in collaboration with manufacturers: (1) autonomous buoys equipped with 360º sonar and cameras to
observe aggregations, acoustic receivers to detect individuals carrying electronic tags and satellite uplinks
for both, (2) new electronic tags with ecological sensors. Various field experiments are conducted to
assist in the development of these prototypes. During these scientific cruises, different instruments and
methods are used to document the behavior of associated species concurrently resident on the same FAD,
including: fishing and acoustic tagging, passive and active acoustic surveys, and underwater visual
census. Those observations, combined together, provide valuable insights in the dynamics of FAD
aggregations.
These instruments can be used in the future (i) to build the foundation for future observatories of
pelagic ecosystems, using FADs as scientific platforms for observation and data collection, (ii) to
understand the effects of FADs on tuna and other associated species, even in remote areas, (iii) to help
reducing by-catch around FADs. FADIO began in 2003 and will end in Oct. 2006, with an exposition and
workshop at the Oceanographic Museum in Monaco.

42/112: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of European and assimilated6
baitboat and purse seine fleets from 1991 to 2004. The data from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2003. The document provides information regarding fleet
characteristics (type of fishing by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category
of the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as
well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, as well as average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic as well as the time-area
breakdown of European and assimilated purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average
situation of 1999-2003.

43/113: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of European and assimilated6
baitboat and purse seine fleets from 1991 to 2004. The data from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2003. The document provides information regarding fleet
characteristics (type of fishing by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category
of the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as
well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, as well as average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic as well as the time-area
breakdown of European and assimilated purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average
situation of 1999-2003.

44/114: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/speciescompositionoftunacatchestakenbypurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Species composition of tuna catches taken by purse seiners
This paper makes a presentation of the multi-species
size sampling that have been conducted in the Indian and
Atlantic oceans since the early eighties allowing to
estimate the average species and size composition of tuna
landings by pole and line vessels and purse seiners. The
paper further discusses the structural biases that are
expected when sampling the complex mixture of sizes and
species that are observed on FAD schools, when done by
observers. It advocates the necessity to sample these
catches using large scale port multispecies sampling
schemes. The data processing of these multi species
samples is also discussed, based the methods developed by
EU scientists in the Atlantic and Indian oceans. The paper
recommends promoting a unified sampling scheme of
purse seine landings in the WCP and a unified data
processing of these size and species samples. The final
recommendation of the paper would to process all the
WCP historical data of species composition using this new
method, and to promote as soon as possible in the WCP
such optimized sampling scheme, this sampling being
fully coordinated between IATTC and WCPFC at the
scale of the entire Pacific Ocean.



62) Recherche du mot : sonar (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/sonar)
1/115: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/omnidirectionalmultibeamsonarmonitoringapplicationsinfisheriesscience> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Omnidirectional multibeam sonar monitoring: applications in fisheries science
Data exploitation, acquired by medium-frequency omnidirectional multibeam sonar, enables original studies in fisheries research but is seldom used despite the fact that such equipment is found on most fishing vessels and a number of research vessels. This is the only system for real-time monitoring of fish schools within a horizontal omnidirectional plane about a vessel or a buoy. Between 1996 and 2001, we used two standard omnidirectional sonars and developed new methodologies for exploiting their specific acoustic data according to two main sampling schemes: 'prospecting', including fishing and searching operations, and 'drifting', as with an instrumental buoy system or aboard a stationary vessel. We present a complete method for continuous data acquisition from aboard a research vessel or commercial boat, with automated data extraction by picture analysis and a data processing method. Two cases of data analysis are considered: the first on a school-by-school basis, the 'single school' mode; the second taking into account all fish schools detected within the sonar sampling volume, the 'cluster' mode. Elementary sonar information is divided into five categories that comprise 24 survey and sonar parameters and 55 school, cluster and fisher behaviour descriptors. We review the applications of these categories and discuss perspectives for their use in fisheries science. If the sonar system enables the evaluation of the effects of vessel avoidance on fish school biomass assessment, no accurate abundance estimate can be provided by a simple sonar echo-integration process. Omnidirectional sonar data can be used to analyse collectively the fish schools' swimming speed, kinematics in terms of diffusion and migration, aggregative dynamics as school splitting and merging indexes, spatial characteristics of clusters such as school density, 2D structure and fisher behaviour. The prospect of integrating such data into a fish school database, including multifrequency echo-sounder and lateral multibeam (3D) sonar data combined with a species recognition method, will enable a complete view of fish school behaviour and consequently the adoption of accurate fisheries management methods.

2/116: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/athreedimensionalapproachtoschooltypologyusingverticalscanningmultibeamsonar> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : A three-dimensional approach to school typology using vertical scanning multibeam sonar
Fish school typology is usually based on vertical echosounding images. These images provide little objective information on school structure (internal characteristics) or morphology (external characteristics). This paper considers the possibility of using multibeam sonar for 3D recording of the external morphology and internal structure of schools, to enhance the identification of typological criteria. We used recordings of 668 schools obtained from three different regions (Senegal, 68; Venezuela, 343; Mexico, 257) on two different Clupeids (Venezuela and Senegal: Sardinella aurita; Mexico: Sardinops sagax). We extracted 26 parameters (4 geographical; 6 morphological; 16 structural) from each school in the data base, using geostatistics and 3D image-reconstruction software. The schools were very homogeneous in most of their characteristics, presenting unimodal distributions of most parameters. Structural variables presented a higher power of discrimination (significant differences among zones, species and positions in the water column) than morphological ones. Multivariate statistics (principal component analysis followed by mixed hierarchical classification) allowed the definition of four main classes of schools. The conclusion is that the structural data provided by multibeam sonar improves the possibility of obtaining a consistent typology.

3/117: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/wavesofagitationinsideanchovyschoolsobservedwithmultibeamsonarawaytotransmitinformationinresponsetopredation> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Waves of agitation inside anchovy schools observed with multibeam sonar: a way to transmit information in response to predation
Most pelagic fish live in schools. To allow fast reactions, for instance to predator attacks, these collective structures require behavioural mechanisms authorizing fast, coordinated movements. Considering the large number of individuals constituting a school of small pelagic fish, a crucial premise to coordinated movements and school reorganization is an ability to transfer quickly and efficiently information across the whole collective structure. We observed anchovy school movements and reactions to sea-lion attacks while the ship was drifting in Peruvian waters. The main process of information transfer we could observe was that of waves of agitation crossing large anchovy schools. The average speed of these waves (7.45 m s–1) was much greater than the average 0.3 m s–1 school speeds measured during this experiment. The internal organization of each school modified dramatically after the waves of agitation had crossed them. Changes in school external morphology and internal structure were described and measured using geostatistics. Our results show that information transfer is a crucial process for the cohesion and plasticity of schools. As such, it allows efficient reactions of schools of pelagic fish to variations in their immediate environment in general, and to predation in particular.

4/118: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/schoolingbehaviourandenvironmentalforcinginrelationtoanchovetadistributionananalysisacrossmultiplespatialscales> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Schooling behaviour and environmental forcing in relation to anchoveta distribution: an analysis across multiple spatial scales
The Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) supports the highest worldwide fishery landings and varies in space and time over many scales. Here we present the first comprehensive sub-mesocale study of anchoveta distribution in relation to the environment. During November 2004, we conducted a behavioural ecology survey off central Peru and used a series of observational and sampling tools including SST and CO2 sensors, Niskin bottles, CTD probes, zooplankton sampling, stomach content analysis, echo-sounder, multibeam sonar, and bird observations. The sub-mesoscale survey areas were chosen from mesoscale acoustic surveys. A routine coast-wide (not, vert, similar2000 km) acoustic survey performed just after the sub-mesoscale surveys, provided information at an even larger population scale. The availability of nearly concurrent sub-mesoscale, mesoscale and coast-wide information on anchoveta distribution allowed for a unique multi-scale synthesis. At the sub-mesoscale (100s m to km) physical processes (internal waves and frontogenesis) concentrated plankton into patches and determined anchoveta spatial distribution. At the mesoscale (10s km) location relative to the zone of active upwelling (and age of the upwelled water) and the depth of the oxycline had strong impacts on the anchoveta. Finally, over 100s km the size of the productive area, as defined by the upwelled cold coastal waters, was the determining factor. We propose a conceptual view of the relative importance of social behaviour and environmental (biotic and abiotic) processes on the spatial distribution of anchoveta. Our ecological space has two y-axis; one based on self-organization (social behaviour), and the other based on the environmental processes. At scales from the individual (10s cm), to the nucleus (m), social behaviour (e.g. the need to school) drives spatial organization. At scales larger than the school, environmental forces are the main driver of fish distribution. The conceptual ecosystem models presented in this paper may provide the final links needed to develop accurate forecasts of the spatial distribution of anchoveta over multiple scales.

5/119: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/communicationinsideanchovyschoolsawaytofacilitatefastdmorphologicalandstructuralchangesinresponsetopredationasobservedwithmultibeamsonar> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Communication inside anchovy schools: a way to facilitate fast 3-D morphological and structural changes in response to predation, as observed with multibeam sonar
Oral communication, ICES CM 2005/U:02

6/120: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fadiofishaggregatingdevicesasintrumentedobservatoriesofpelagicecosystemsaeuropeanunionfundedprojectondevelopmentofnewobservationalinstrumentsandthebehavioroffisharoundfads> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : FADIO (Fish Aggregating Devices as Intrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) : a European Union funded project on development of new observational instruments and the behavior of fish around FADs
Associative behavior is a major component of the life of pelagic fish. Tropical tuna and other
species are often found in association with floating objects, with other animals, and with topographic
features such as seamounts. Because fish are more abundant, occur in larger schools, or are easier to catch
when aggregated, fishermen extensively use these associations to increase their catches. More than 50%
of the world tuna catches are made from schools associated with floating objects.
There is a clear need for new technologies to study these associations and to propose innovative
methods of management. The European Union has funded a project to study the requirements of future
assessment tools and to develop prototypes. The project: FADIO1 (Fish Aggregating Devices as
Instrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) has conducted five extensive field surveys of the
Western Indian Ocean in conjunction with the large-scale purse seine fishery operating on drifting FADs
that operates in this region.
The objectives of FADIO are to develop new observation and assessment tools and collect data
on the behavior of pelagic fish around drifting FADs. Two categories of instruments are being developed
in collaboration with manufacturers: (1) autonomous buoys equipped with 360º sonar and cameras to
observe aggregations, acoustic receivers to detect individuals carrying electronic tags and satellite uplinks
for both, (2) new electronic tags with ecological sensors. Various field experiments are conducted to
assist in the development of these prototypes. During these scientific cruises, different instruments and
methods are used to document the behavior of associated species concurrently resident on the same FAD,
including: fishing and acoustic tagging, passive and active acoustic surveys, and underwater visual
census. Those observations, combined together, provide valuable insights in the dynamics of FAD
aggregations.
These instruments can be used in the future (i) to build the foundation for future observatories of
pelagic ecosystems, using FADs as scientific platforms for observation and data collection, (ii) to
understand the effects of FADs on tuna and other associated species, even in remote areas, (iii) to help
reducing by-catch around FADs. FADIO began in 2003 and will end in Oct. 2006, with an exposition and
workshop at the Oceanographic Museum in Monaco.

7/121: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/microgroupsthesmallestdurablecollectiveorganizationingregariousfishassuggestedbystatisticalanalysisofmultibeamsonarobservations> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Micro-groups : the smallest durable collective organization in gregarious fish, as suggested by statistical analysis of multibeam sonar observations


8/122: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multibeamsonardetectionofsuspendedmusselculturegroundsintheopenseadirectobservationmethodsformanagementpurposes> : SCORE = 0.91553277
Doc : Multibeam sonar detection of suspended mussel culture grounds in the open sea: Direct observation methods for management purposes
The exploitation of offshore mussel farms is becoming important throughout the world, but monitoring this activity remains a difficult task. Here, we propose a specific method for this purpose. A total of 140 long-lines were monitored on a mussel culture ground in the French Mediterranean Sea during four experimental surveys deploying multibeam sonar devices mounted on poles (Reson Seabat 6012, 455 kHz) on small boats. This allowed geo-referenced observations to be made of the submerged mussel long-lines, as well as three-dimensional (3D) drawings of the long-line structures and the sea bed shapes, using long-line longitudinal sonar sampling. Three sonar data-analysis methods were applied: (i) direct two-dimensional (2D) visual interpretation of raw sonar video images; (ii) indirect 2D long-line drawings; and (iii) 3D digital long-line reconstructions. The development of these acoustic methods in shallow water provides scientists, managers and local authorities with a tool for observing the 3D position (geographical position and depth) of mussel cultures, for counting each structure by the ‘long-line echo-counting' method, for monitoring their shape in situ, and for classifying the mussel rope segments into three growth categories (‘in growth', ‘full' and ‘empty'). The use of acoustic tools for monitoring underwater mussel culture grounds, for management purposes and for scientific studies, could be extended to other artificial structures in shallow water environments.



63) Recherche du mot : Sphyrna zygaena (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyrna_zygaena)


64) Recherche du mot : Snappers nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lutjanus_spp)


65) Recherche du mot : macronectes halli (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/macronectes_halli)


66) Recherche du mot : Ecosystème de la mer d'Arabie (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/arabian_sea)


67) Recherche du mot : ICCAT identifier for a vessel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/iccatId)


68) Recherche du mot : Bonite à dos rayé (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sarda_sarda)


69) Recherche du mot : Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/avhrr)
1/123: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/alongshoreandtemporalvariabilityinchlorophyllaconcentrationinchileannearshorewaters> : SCORE = 1.7912943
Doc : Alongshore and temporal variability in chlorophyll a concentration in Chilean nearshore waters
Phytoplankton and particulate organic matter constitute the primary food source for adult filter-feeders, as well as for larval stages of many benthic and pelagic organisms. The structure and dynamics of nearshore benthic communities may be associated with variation in nearshore primary production. However, we know little about the scales of variability in phytoplankton in nearshore waters along open coasts, or about their causes. To characterize spatial and temporal patterns of chl a concentration, we conducted 2.5 yr of daily, shore-based monitoring at 3 sites separated by 10s of km within an upwelling region in central Chile. We found that: (1) peaks in chl a concentration were typically short-lived, persisting no longer than 4 d, (2) blooms occurred in spring to early summer months at all sites, but also during autumn months at 1 site (Las Cruces), and (3) the intensity and frequency of blooms were consistently different among sites; highest concentrations were at Las Cruces, lower at El Quisco, and the lowest at Quintay. Analyses of wind data and surface temperature, and inspection of Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) satellite images, suggested that among-site differences were due, at least in part, to alongshore variation in upwelling intensity and the formation of warm-water pockets or upwelling shadows in sections of the coast, such as Las Cruces. In contrast to the spatial pattern described offshore and over larger spatial scales, chl a concentrations were significantly lower at the coldest site, Quintay, located at the core of an upwelling center (Pta. Curaumilla), than at the warmer site of Las Cruces, which lies downstream from upwelling. Day-to-day variation in chl a levels during spring at Las Cruces seems related to the alongshore intrusion of waters upwelled upstream. Overall, the pattern observed at our 3 sites, together with previous studies at other upwelling systems, suggests that sections of the coast around 15 to 20 km downstream (equatorward) from upwelling centers could exhibit consistently higher phytoplankton concentrations than sites located in front of upwelling centers, generating a source-sink type of geographic pattern of nearshore nutrients and phytoplankton along the coast.



70) Recherche du mot : écosystème côtier (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/coastal_ecosystem)


71) Recherche du mot : Marlin rayé (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_audax)


72) Recherche du mot : Casarte ojón (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/gymnosarda_unicolor)


73) Recherche du mot : collecteur (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/collecteur)


74) Recherche du mot : salabarde (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/salabarde)


75) Recherche du mot : Grimalditeuthis bonplandii dans worms !!! (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/grimalditeuthis_bonplandi)


76) Recherche du mot : basin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/basin)
1/124: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/windwavesandwingloadingmorphologicalspecializationmaylimitrangeexpansionofendangeredalbatrosses> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Wind, Waves, and Wing Loading: Morphological Specialization May Limit Range Expansion of Endangered Albatrosses
Among the varied adaptations for avian flight, the morphological traits allowing large-bodied albatrosses to capitalize on wind and wave energy for efficient long-distance flight are unparalleled. Consequently, the biogeographic distribution of most albatrosses is limited to the windiest oceanic regions on earth; however, exceptions exist. Species breeding in the North and Central Pacific Ocean (Phoebastria spp.) inhabit regions of lower wind speed and wave height than southern hemisphere genera, and have large intrageneric variation in body size and aerodynamic performance. Here, we test the hypothesis that regional wind and wave regimes explain observed differences in Phoebastria albatross morphology and we compare their aerodynamic performance to representatives from the other three genera of this globally distributed avian family. In the North and Central Pacific, two species (short-tailed P. albatrus and waved P. irrorata) are markedly larger, yet have the smallest breeding ranges near highly productive coastal upwelling systems. Short-tailed albatrosses, however, have 60% higher wing loading (weight per area of lift) compared to waved albatrosses. Indeed, calculated aerodynamic performance of waved albatrosses, the only tropical albatross species, is more similar to those of their smaller congeners (black-footed P. nigripes and Laysan P. immutabilis), which have relatively low wing loading and much larger foraging ranges that include central oceanic gyres of relatively low productivity. Globally, the aerodynamic performance of short-tailed and waved albatrosses are most anomalous for their body sizes, yet consistent with wind regimes within their breeding season foraging ranges. Our results are the first to integrate global wind and wave patterns with albatross aerodynamics, thereby identifying morphological specialization that may explain limited breeding ranges of two endangered albatross species. These results are further relevant to understanding past and potentially predicting future distributional limits of albatrosses globally, particularly with respect to climate change effects on basin-scale and regional wind fields.

2/125: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/patternsofvariabilityofseasurfacechlorophyllinthemozambiquechannelaquantitativeapproach> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Patterns of variability of sea surface chlorophyll in the Mozambique Channel:A quantitative approach
We analyse the coupling between sea surface chlorophyll concentration (CC) and the physical environment in the Mozambique Channel (MZC) using statistical models. Seasonal and interannual patterns are studied along with the role of mesoscale dynamics on enhancement and concentration processes for phytoplankton. We use SeaWifs data for CC and two other remotely sensed data sets, TMMI for sea surface temperature (SST) and merged altimetry products for sea level anomaly and geostrophic current. Empirical Orthogonal Functions (EOF) on SSC and SST show strong seasonality and partition the MZC into three distinct sub-areas. The chlorophyll variability is mostly driven by seasonality, but more in the North (10°S–16°S) and South (24°S–30°S), and explains respectively 64% and 82% of the CC variance. In the Central part (16°S–24°S), the seasonal signal has less influence (60% variance). There, complex EOFs on Sea Level Anomaly (SLA) highlight the role of mesoscale activity (i.e. eddies and filament structures) in the spatial distribution of chlorophyll. Five mesoscale descriptors (shear, stretch, vorticity, deformation and eddy kinetic energy) are derived from the altimetry data to quantify the eddies-related physical patterns in the central region of the MZC. We use generalized Additive Models to explain the effect of those features on phytoplankton enhancement. The best model fit (r2=0.73) includes shear, stretch, vorticity and the latitude-longitude interaction as eddies are well structured in space. Cyclonic eddies associated with negative vorticity are conductive to phytoplankton enhancement by the effect of upwelling in the core notably during the spin-up phase. The interaction between eddies generate strong frontal mixing favourable to the production and aggregation of organic matter. The mesoscale activity is also affected by interannual variability with consequences on CC. We highlight a substantial reduction of the SLA pattern in 2000–2001 when the SOI positive phase is peaking (Nina-type pattern). The strong relationship between mesoscale eddies and SOI suggests that primary productivity in the MZC is also under the influence of distant forcing at a basin scale.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

3/126: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/migratoryshearwatersintegrateoceanicresourcesacrossthepacificoceaninanendlesssummer> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Migratory shearwaters integrate oceanic resources across the Pacific Ocean in an endless summer
Electronic tracking tags have revolutionized our understanding of broad-scale movements and habitat use of highly mobile marine animals, but a large gap in our knowledge still remains for a wide range of small species. Here, we report the extraordinary transequatorial postbreeding migrations of a small seabird, the sooty shearwater, obtained with miniature archival tags that log data for estimating. position, dive depth, and ambient temperature. Tracks (262 +/- 23 days) reveal that shearwaters fly across the entire Pacific Ocean in a figure-eight pattern while traveling 64,037 +/- 9,779 km roundtrip, the longest animal migration ever recorded electronically. Each shearwater made a prolonged stopover in one of three discrete regions off Japan, Alaska, or California before returning to New Zealand through a relatively narrow corridor in the central Pacific Ocean. Transit rates as high as 910 +/- 186 km(.)day(-1) were recorded, and shearwaters accessed prey resources in both the Northern and Southern Hemisphere's most productive waters from the surface to 68.2 m depth. Our results indicate that sooty shearwaters integrate oceanic resources throughout the Pacific Basin on a yearly scale. Sooty shearwater populations today are declining, and because they operate on a global scale, they may serve as an important indicator of climate change and ocean health.



77) Recherche du mot : Economy (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/economy)


78) Recherche du mot : Electric lantern fish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/electrona_risso)


79) Recherche du mot : Sphyrna spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyrna_spp)


80) Recherche du mot : Activité de pêche (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fishing_activity)


81) Recherche du mot : Encornet poulpe dana (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/taaningia_danae)


82) Recherche du mot : Fou du Cap (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/morus_capensis)


83) Recherche du mot : pupitre (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/pupitre)


84) Recherche du mot : Japetella diaphana (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/japetella_diaphana)


85) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus sorrah (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_sorrah)


86) Recherche du mot : Dactyloptena orientalis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/dactyloptena_orientalis)


87) Recherche du mot : crabe (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/crab)


88) Recherche du mot : upwelling ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/upwelling_ecosystem)
1/127: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/twowaycouplingversusonewayforcingofplanktonandfishmodelstopredictecosystemchangesinthebenguela> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Two-way coupling versus one-way forcing of plankton and fish models to predict ecosystem changes in the Benguela
‘End-to-end' models have been adopted in an attempt to capture more of the processes that influence the ecology of marine ecosystems and to make system wide predictions of the effects of fishing and climate change. Here, we develop an end-to-end model by coupling existing models that describe the dynamics of low (ROMS–N2P2Z2D2) and high trophic levels (OSMOSE). ROMS–N2P2Z2D2 is a biogeochemical model representing phytoplankton and zooplankton seasonal dynamics forced by hydrodynamics in the Benguela upwelling ecosystem. OSMOSE is an individual-based model representing the dynamics of several species of fish, linked through opportunistic and size-based trophic interactions. The models are coupled through a two-way size-based predation process. Plankton provides prey for fish, and the effects of predation by fish on the plankton are described by a plankton mortality term that is variable in space and time. Using the end-to-end model, we compare the effects of two-way coupling versus one-way forcing of the fish model with the plankton biomass field. The fish-induced mortality on plankton is temporally variable, in part explained by seasonal changes in fish biomass. Inclusion of two-way feedback affects the seasonal dynamics of plankton groups and usually reduces the amplitude of variation in abundance (top-down effect). Forcing and coupling lead to different predicted food web structures owing to changes in the dominant food chain which is supported by plankton (bottom-up effect). Our comparisons of one-way forcing and two-way coupling show how feedbacks may affect abundance, food web structure and food web function and emphasise the need to critically examine the consequences of different model architectures when seeking to predict the effects of fishing and climate change.

2/128: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingandcomparingthespawninghabitatsofanchovyengraulisencrasicolusandsardinesardinopssagaxinthesouthernbenguelaupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 1.013309
Doc : Characterizing and comparing the spawning habitats of anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem
The spawning habitats of anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus and sardine Sardinops sagax in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem were characterised by comparing their egg abundances with environmental variables measured concomitantly during two different survey programmes: the South African Sardine and Anchovy Recruitment Programme (SARP), which comprised monthly surveys conducted during the austral summers of 1993/94 and 1994/95; and annual pelagic spawner biomass surveys conducted in early summer (November/December) from 1984 to 1999. Eggs were collected using a CalVET net. Physical variables measured included sea surface temperature (SST), surface salinity, water depth, mixed-layer depth, and current and wind speeds; biological variables measured included phytoplankton biomass, and zooplankton biomass and production. Spawning habitat was identified by construction of quotient curves derived from egg abundance data and individual environmental variables, and relationships between these variables were determined using multivariate co-inertia analysis. SARP data showed that anchovy spawning was associated with cool water and moderate wind and current speeds, whereas sardine spawning was related to warmer water and more turbulent and unstable conditions (i.e. high wind speeds and strong currents) than for anchovy. SARP data also showed significant differences in selection of spawning habitat of the two species for all environmental variables. The relationship between anchovy egg abundance and salinity was strongly positive, but strongly negative with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. Sardine egg abundance was strongly positively related to current speed. The spawner biomass survey data demonstrated that the spawning habitat of anchovy was characterised by warm water and high salinity, whereas sardine spawning was associated with cool water and low salinity. The survey data showed significant differences in spawning habitat selection by anchovy and sardine for SST, salinity and zooplankton biomass, but not for the other environmental variables. There was a positive relationship between anchovy egg abundance and SST, salinity and mixed-layer depth, and a negative relationship with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. For sardine there was a strong positive relationship between egg abundance and current speed and wind speed. Differences in the results between the two survey programmes could be attributable to differences in their spatio-temporal coverage. Spawning habitats of anchovy and sardine appear to be substantially different, with anchovy being more specific than sardine in their preference of various environmental conditions.

3/129: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicstructureoftheperuvianmarineecosystemininsightsontheeffectsofmanagementscenariosforthehakefisheryusingtheibmtrophicmodelosmose> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Trophic structure of the Peruvian marine ecosystem in 2000-2006 : insights on the effects of management scenarios for the hake fishery using the IBM trophic model Osmose
The individual-based trophic model Osmose is applied to the upwelling marine ecosystem off
the coast of Peru. The dynamics and life cycle of eight major species of the Peruvian marine
ecosystem are explicitly considered in the model. Reference simulations provide an overview of
the trophic structure of the Peruvian ecosystem during the period 2000–2006. Results of model
calibration and simulations are discussed in the light of current empirical knowledge on the
trophic functioning of the Peruvian ecosystem and are compared to outputs obtained recently
using the trophic model Ecopath.
The impacts on the ecosystem of restoration plans for the depleted hake (Merluccius gayi
peruanus) population are explored through two management scenarios: a) a long term
reduction of fishing effort targeting hake and b) a moratorium on the hake fishery. The
simulations help better understand the recent failure of a 20 month hake moratorium and
provide long-term strategic support to ecosystem-based management. Limits of our approach
are discussed and recommendations are detailed for future developments of the Osmose model
and ecosystem approach to fishery management in the Peruvian context.

4/130: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/enrichmentconcentrationandretentionprocessesinrelationtoanchovyengraulisringenseggsandlarvaedistributionsinthenorthernhumboldtupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 1.7729216
Doc : Enrichment, concentration and retention processes in relation to anchovy (Engraulis ringens) eggs and larvae distributions in the northern Humboldt upwelling ecosystem
A Lagrangian model is used to simulate and quantify in the northern Humboldt upwelling ecosystem the processes of enrichment, concentration and retention, identified by Bakun [Bakun, A., 1996. Patterns in the ocean. Ocean processes and marine population (sic). University of California Sea Grant, California, USA, in cooperation with Centro de Investigaciones Biologicas de Noroeste, (sic) California Sur, Mexico, 323 pp.] as being important for the survival and recruitment of early life stages of pelagic fish. The method relies on tracking the positions of particles within water velocity fields generated by a three-dimensional hydrodynamic model. Simple criteria for considering particles as participating to enrichment, concentration or retention are used to derive indices of the three processes. We analyse the spatial distribution of and seasonal variability in these indices. The results are discussed in relation to anchovy (Engraulis ringens) eggs and larvae distributions off Peru, and to a comparable study conducted in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem.

5/131: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialconsiderationsforthedakhlastockofoctopusvulgarisindicatorspatternsandfisheriesinteractions> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Spatial considerations for the Dakhla stock of Octopus vulgaris: indicators, patterns and fisheries interactions
The common octopus (Octopus vulgaris) is the target species of the cephalopod fishery that exploits two stocks, Dakhla and Cap Blanc, off southern Morocco (26 degrees N 21 degrees N), an area commonly referred to as the Saharan Bank. Octopus vulgaris is also one of the most abundant demersal species in this highly productive area, and plays a key role in the upwelling ecosystem. Spatial patterns of the main phases of the octopus vulgaris life cycle of the Dakhla stock are described, using trawl surveys carried out twice a year from 1998 to 2003. Using geostatistics and spatial indicators, mature females and juveniles are analysed and mapped to characterize the main features of the spawning and recruitment phases. There are clear distinctions between the spatial patterns of the spawning and recruitment phases: juveniles are more coastal, less spatially dispersed, more anisotropically distributed, and more patchy. Our results suggest that the spatial pattern of the Octopus vulgaris Dakhla stock is different from that of the same species in other ecosystems such as the Mediterranean. GIS reveals that the spawning-stock biomass is globally more accessible to the industrial fleet than to the artisanal one, a finding contrary to contemporary thinking and with important resource management implications.

6/132: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/simulationandquantificationofenrichmentandretentionprocessesinthesouthernbenguelaupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Simulation and quantification of enrichment and retention processes in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem
Important environmental processes for the survival and recruitment of early life stages of pelagic fishes have been synthesized through Bakun's fundamental triad as enrichment, concentration and retention processes (A. Bakun, 1996, Patterns in the Ocean. Ocean Processes and Marine Population Dynamics. San Diego, CA, USA: University of California Sea Grant). This conceptual framework states that from favourable spawning habitats, eggs and larvae would be transported to and/or retained in places where food originating from enrichment areas would be concentrated. We propose a method for quantifying two of the triad processes, enrichment and retention, based on the Lagrangian tracking of particles transported within water velocity fields generated by a three-dimensional hydrodynamic model. We apply this method to the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem, constructing putative maps of enrichment and retention. We comment on these maps regarding main features of the circulation in the region, and investigate seasonal variability of the processes. We finally discuss the results in relation to available knowledge on the reproductive strategies of two pelagic clupeoid species abundant in the southern Benguela, anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax). Our approach is intended to be sufficiently generic so as to allow its application to other upwelling systems.

7/133: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/easternboundaryupwellingecosystemsymposium> : SCORE = 5.732142
Doc : Eastern Boundary Upwelling Ecosystem Symposium


8/134: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/changesinfoodwebstructureunderscenariosofoverfishinginthesouthernbenguelacomparisonoftheecosimandosmosemodellingapproaches> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Changes in food web structure under scenarios of overfishing in the southern Benguela: comparison of the Ecosim and OSMOSE modelling approaches
Ecosystem models provide a platform allowing exploration into the possible responses of marine food webs to fishing pressure and various potential management decisions. In this study we investigate the particular effects of overfishing on the structure and function of the southern Benguela food web, using two models with different underlying assumptions: the spatialized, size-based individual-based model, OSMOSE, and the trophic mass-balance model, Ecopath with Ecosim (EwE). Starting from the same reference state of the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem during the 1990s, we compare the response of the food web to scenarios of overfishing using these two modelling approaches. A scenario of increased fishing mortality is applied to two distinct functional groups: i) two species of Cape hake, representing important target predatory fish, and ii) the forage species anchovy, sardine and redeye. In these simulations, fishing mortality on the selected functional groups is doubled for 10 years, followed by 10 years at the initial fishing mortality. We compare the food web states before the increase of fishing mortality, after 10 years of overfishing and after a further 10 years during which fishing was returned to initial levels. In order to compare the simulated food web structures with the reference state, and between the two modelling approaches, we use a set of trophic indicators: the mean trophic level of the community and in catches, the trophic pyramid (biomass per discrete trophic level), and the predatory/forage fish biomass ratio. OSMOSE and EwE present globally similar results for the trophic functioning of the ecosystem under fishing pressure: the biomass of targeted species decreases whereas that of their potential competitors increases. The reaction of distant species is more diverse, depending on the feeding links between the compartments. The mean trophic level of the community does not vary enough to be used for assessing ecosystem impacts of fishing, and the mean trophic level in the catch displays a surprising increase due to the short period of overfishing. The trophic pyramids behave in an unexpected way compared to trophic control theory, because at least two food chains with different dynamics are intertwined within the food web. We emphasize the importance of biomass information at the species level for interpreting dynamics in aggregated indicators, and we highlight the importance of competitive groups when looking at ecosystem functioning under fishing disturbance. Finally, we discuss the results within the scope of differences between models, in terms of the way they are formulated, spatial dimensions, predation formulations and the representation of fish life cycles.



89) Recherche du mot : banc (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/school)


90) Recherche du mot : Titan (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/titan)


91) Recherche du mot : Cycloteuthis akimushkini (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/cycloteuthis_akimushkini)


92) Recherche du mot : Peto (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/acanthocybium_solandri)


93) Recherche du mot : aquaculture (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/farming)
1/135: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ices> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : ICES
Small and large pelagic fish are known to aggregate around fish aggregating devices (FADs). One major question in this field is: can fish abundance around FADs be used as a proxy of the total fish abundance in the area? This issue was first addressed through acoustic observations on small pelagic fish in a bay of Reunion island (Western Indian Ocean). Twenty artificial structures such as moored buoys, artificial reefs, aquaculture cages, submarine shipwreck or fishing FADS, are scattered in the bay from 15 m to 50 m depth. We conducted 28 acoustic surveys during new moon periods from February 2003 to August 2006 in order to (1) characterize the effects of FADs on small pelagic fish distributions, (2) study if there is any relationship between the abundance of FAD-associated and non FAD-associated (free) shoals. The frequency histogram of the distance between fish shoals and the nearest FAD revealed a 150 m FAD influence on the distribution of shoals. This distance was applied to distinguish FAD-associated shoals (< 150 m) from free shoals (> 150 m). For these two types of shoal and for each survey, shoal densities (number of shoals by nautical miles) and acoustic and morphological descriptors were then computed. FAD-associated shoal densities were significantly related to free shoal densities, suggesting correlative evidence between both. However, the regression performed on acoustic and morphological descriptors did not show clear relationship. The potential of using densities of shoals around FADs as a proxy for total density in the area is discussed.



94) Recherche du mot : aldabra (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/aldabra)
1/136: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragingmovementsofgreatfrigatebirdsfromaldabraislandrelationshipswithenvironmentalvariablesandinteractionswithfisheries> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Foraging movements of great frigatebirds from Aldabra Island : relationships with environmental variables and interactions with fisheries




95) Recherche du mot : aiguille (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/pinnacle)


96) Recherche du mot : bank (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/bank)
1/137: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/workshoponmappingandgeostatisticalmethodsforfisheriesstockassessment> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Workshop on Mapping and Geostatistical Methods for Fisheries Stock Assessment
The NAFO Scientific Council Special Session of September 2003 was the Workshop on Mapping and Geostatistical Methods for Fisheries Stock Assessment. The objective of the workshop was to provide participants with the basic understanding of geostatistical conceptes and methods, and provide tools to apply this knowledge to fisheries stock assessments. The instructors introduced freeware mapping and geostatistical software. Two sets of data were used for the lessons and demonstrations: the Canadian spring bottom trawl survey data from 1996 to 2002, and information from the yellowtail flounder commercial fishery on the Grand Bank from 1996 to 2002. The visualization, analysis and modeling of spatial data using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) were presented (e.g. Ocean Data View (ODV freeware), SPAN (Spatial Analysis System) and ACON (A CONtouring package). Surface (map) generating techniques were demonstrated using the various software packges. Geostatistical concepts and methods related to kriging, and methods for analyses using basics of the "R" software package were described.

2/138: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/smallscalespatialandtemporalinteractionsamongbenthiccrustaceansandonefishspeciesinthebayofbiscay> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Small-scale spatial and temporal interactions among benthic crustaceans and one fish species in the Bay of Biscay
In the summer of 2004, a video survey was carried out in the northern part of the central mud bank (Grande Vasière) of the Bay of Biscay to study the small scale relationship between the dominant crustacean megafauna Nephrops norvegicus, Munida rugosa and Goneplax rhomboides and juvenile hake (Merluccius merluccius). Using a towed body, high-resolution videos were recorded in six sampling sites. Statistical modelling using generalised additive models (GAM) revealed variations in activity patterns for two species. More N. norvegicus were observed outside their burrows at dawn and somewhat at dusk (no observations during night) while G. rhomboides was less observed in the morning. In addition, reduced spatial overlap between G. rhomboides and N. norvegicus suggested reduced competition for food but also space as both are burrowing species. The observed temporal and spatial activity patterns may contribute to regulating assemblage structure as competing species may be actively foraging at different times and locations thus reducing direct competition.

3/139: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingtheprimaryandsecondaryproductionsofthesouthernbenguelaupwellingsystemacomparativestudythroughtwobiogeochemicalmodelsglobalbiogeochem> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Modeling the primary and secondary productions of the southern Benguela upwelling system: A comparative study through two biogeochemical models, Global Biogeochem
A three-dimensional primitive equation model, the Regional Ocean Modeling Systems (ROMS), coupled to two biogeochemical configurations (NPZD and N2P2Z2D2) was used to study the dynamics of the first trophic levels of the pelagic food web in the southern Benguela upwelling system. The domain extends from the Agulhas Bank bordered by the Agulhas Current to 27°S on the west coast of South Africa. The circulation is driven by monthly climatologies of atmospheric forcing fields. The NPZD ecosystem model consists of four state variables: nutrient (nitrate), phytoplankton, zooplankton and detritus. In the N2P2Z2D2 model, ammonium has been added and the three other variables have been divided into small and large organisms or detritus. Both models are able to reproduce the spatio-temporal phytoplankton distribution. Along the west coast, chlorophyll concentrations maxima are associated to surface waters. Westward dominating winds generate the lowest chlorophyll concentrations encountered in winter. The small phytoplankton organisms simulated by the N2P2Z2D2 model are responsible for a weaker chlorophyll inshore/offshore gradient, in closer agreement with observations. Transitions from a regime dominated by new production (high f ratio) to one dominated by regenerated production (low f ratio) happen to be abrupt, underlying the constant competition between small and large organisms with regard to upwelling induced nutrient inputs. On the Agulhas Bank, the summer enrichment is associated with subsurface maxima, while in winter, mixing by storms results in a homogeneous phytoplankton distribution in the water column. Regenerated production plays an important role in maintaining the total phytoplankton growth. Zooplankton biomass reflects the overall patterns of chlorophyll a concentrations with differences between the west coast and the Agulhas Bank, consistent with data, and its distribution exhibits a clear seasonal contrast. The seasonality of small and large zooplankton in the N2P2Z2D2 model is quite distinct, which allows, from the Agulhas Bank to St. Helena Bay, a food continuum for fish larvae. This was not achieved with the simpler NPZD model, emphasizing the importance of representing the appropriate level of complexity to characterize food availability for higher trophic levels.

4/140: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/amodeloftheimpactoffishingbottomtrawlsontheinvertebratecommunitiesofthegreatmuddybankbayofbiscayfrance> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : A model of the impact of fishing bottom trawls on the invertebrate communities of the Great Muddy Bank (Bay of Biscay, France)


5/141: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/regionalfeedingpatternsofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Regional feeding patterns of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) of the western Indian Ocean
The food composition of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox Lowe, 1833) was studied in two areas belonging to different biogeographic provinces of the western Indian Ocean: Indian Monsoon Gyres Province (MONS) and Indian South Subtropical Gyre Province (ISSG). A total of 158 lancetfish were sampled during two research longline cruises in 1986-1987: 50 within the MONS, from the western equatorial area (between the EEZs of Kenya and Seychelles) and 108 within the ISSG, from the northern part of the EEZ of Mauritius (Saya-de-Malha Bank – Agalega Islands area). In the equatorial area, 135 prey items (of 18 families or higher taxa) were found in the lancetfish stomachs. In the waters of Mauritius, 476 prey items of 53 taxa were recorded. Regional variability in the feeding habits reflects province-specific differences in the prey abundance and the structure of pelagic communities of the intermediate trophic levels. Large predatory crustaceans dominate in the waters of MONS, while they are absent in the poor waters of ISSG. Foraging success of the lancetfish on non-evasive prey was 3.2 times higher in the MONS than in the ISSG. In overall, swimming crab, Hyperiidea, conspecifics, barracudina, hatchetfish, hammerjaw, and Polychaeta were the predominant prey of the lancetfish. Great differences in the food composition of ‘small' (FL

6/142: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialconsiderationsforthedakhlastockofoctopusvulgarisindicatorspatternsandfisheriesinteractions> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Spatial considerations for the Dakhla stock of Octopus vulgaris: indicators, patterns and fisheries interactions
The common octopus (Octopus vulgaris) is the target species of the cephalopod fishery that exploits two stocks, Dakhla and Cap Blanc, off southern Morocco (26 degrees N 21 degrees N), an area commonly referred to as the Saharan Bank. Octopus vulgaris is also one of the most abundant demersal species in this highly productive area, and plays a key role in the upwelling ecosystem. Spatial patterns of the main phases of the octopus vulgaris life cycle of the Dakhla stock are described, using trawl surveys carried out twice a year from 1998 to 2003. Using geostatistics and spatial indicators, mature females and juveniles are analysed and mapped to characterize the main features of the spawning and recruitment phases. There are clear distinctions between the spatial patterns of the spawning and recruitment phases: juveniles are more coastal, less spatially dispersed, more anisotropically distributed, and more patchy. Our results suggest that the spatial pattern of the Octopus vulgaris Dakhla stock is different from that of the same species in other ecosystems such as the Mediterranean. GIS reveals that the spawning-stock biomass is globally more accessible to the industrial fleet than to the artisanal one, a finding contrary to contemporary thinking and with important resource management implications.

7/143: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ninenationsoneoceanabenchmarkappraisalofthesouthwesternindianoceanfisheriesproject> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Nine nations, one ocean: A benchmark appraisal of the South Western Indian Ocean Fisheries Project (2008–2012)
Coastal and island states of the Western Indian Ocean lack scientific and management capacity to draw sustainable benefits from their Exclusive Economic Zones. Declining ecosystem services and unregulated fishing has prompted nine riparian countries to develop a regional framework for capacity building and scientific development towards collective management of shared resources. Supported by the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the Agulhas and Somali Currents large marine ecosystems programme consists of three inter-related modules, supported by different agencies: land-based impacts on the marine environment (UNEP); productivity, ecosystem health and nearshore fisheries (UNDP) and transboundary shared and migrating fisheries resources (World Bank). The latter is the South Western Indian Ocean Fisheries Project (SWIOFP), a 5-year joint data gathering and fisheries assessment initiative. SWIOFP is a prelude to long-term cooperative fisheries management in partnership with the newly established FAO–South Western Indian Ocean Fisheries Commission (SWIOFC). We describe the development of SWIOFP as a model of participatory regional scientific cooperation and collective ocean management.
© 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

8/144: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hfradarobservationsofsurfacecirculationoffbodegabaynortherncaliforniausa> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : HF radar observations of surface circulation off Bodega Bay (northern California, USA)
[1] Two high-frequency radar stations (CODAR) were installed along the northern California coast in May 2001. Comparisons of radar data with acoustic Doppler current profiler ( ADCP) current data and near-surface drifter tracks indicate considerable agreement, with minimum RMS differences of order 0.05 - 0.15 m/s and average drifter-HF-radar track separation rates of 5 +/- 3 km/d. Radar data resolve the three main sources of intraseasonal current variability in the area: ( 1) upwelling/relaxation dynamics, ( 2) tidal and diurnal forcing, and ( 3) inertial currents. Subtidal fluctuations are the largest component of variability, accounting for 45 - 75% of the variance. Wind-driven dynamics are the dominant source of this subtidal variability (67% of subtidal variability). Both upwelling and relaxation periods exhibit consistent patterns of surface velocity, with nearshore currents being slower and more poleward than offshore currents, which are strongly equatorward. Analysis of tidal and inertial variability indicate that current fluctuations are polarized toward clockwise rotation and are generally weaker and more linearly polarized near the coast. M-2 tidal current ellipses switch direction of rotation at the shelf break, suggesting the presence of internal tidal waves. Currents in all frequency bands are deflected and accelerated around Pt. Reyes, and there are indications of increased current variability and changes in flow direction near Cordell Bank. The presence of considerable cross-shore and alongshore gradients in the strength and direction of surface flow patterns, and in particular weak poleward currents over the inner shelf, could have important consequences for plankton retention in the area.

9/145: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatiotemporalvariabilityinfishinducedpredationmortalityonplanktonasimulationapproachusingacoupledtrophicmodelofthebenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Spatio-temporal variability in fish-induced predation mortality on plankton. A simulation approach using a coupled trophic model of the Benguela ecosystem
We investigate the potential predation pressure that would affect plankton communities spatially and seasonally using a coupled model, where fish-induced predation mortality is explicit. In the southern Benguela ecosystem, the fish model OSMOSE is forced by a biogeochemical model providing plankton prey fields. We analyse the resulting potential predation mortality rate on copepods. Spatially, this mortality rate is higher on the South coast (Agulhas bank) than on the West coast (upwelling zone), reflecting a lower plankton concentration compared to food requirement for fish. Temporally, fish-induced predation mortality decreases at the beginning of the upwelling season, due to a rapid increase of plankton concentration combined with a lag in the subsequent increase of fish biomass. Such strong spatio-temporal patterns in fish-induced predation mortality encourage the development of two-ways coupling between fish and plankton models for better representing the dynamics of the southern Benguela food web.

10/146: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/stablecarbonandnitrogenisotopeanalysisofthenephropsnorvegicusmerlucciusmerlucciusfishinggroundsinthebayofbiscaynortheastatlantic> : SCORE = 0.30707902
Doc : Stable carbon and nitrogen isotope analysis of the Nephrops norvegicus/Merluccius merluccius fishing grounds in the Bay of Biscay (Northeast Atlantic)
The trophic structure of the benthic ecosystem of the Grande Vasière (Great Mud Bank), a heavily trawled area in the Bay of Biscay, is largely unknown. To better understand the biotic interactions between exploited species (mainly Norway lobster, Nephrops norvegicus, and European hake, Merluccius merluccius) and their competitors and prey, we applied a dual stable carbon (13C/12C) and nitrogen (15N/14N) isotope analysis to determine trophic levels and differences in the potential food sources of species in the benthic and demersal communities. Five main groups of species constitute the basis of the trophic structure. They are distributed in three main trophic levels: primary consumers; secondary consumers including N. norvegicus and juvenile M. merluccius; and top predators including adult M. merluccius (δ15N = 14.5). The large differences in δ13C values within the primary consumers attest to two different food components: a pelagic component composed of fresh sedimenting particulate organic matter, which mainly supplies supra- and epi-benthic suspension feeders, and zooplankton, and a benthic component, which mainly supplies deposit feeders. For the predators, the target species, and their competitors, diet changes during the life-span are reflected by differences in isotope values for the size classes.

Résumé : La structure trophique de l'écosystème benthique de la Grande Vasière, une importante zone de pêche au chalut de fond du Golfe de Gascogne, demeure encore méconnue. Afin de mieux comprendre les interactions biotiques entre les espèces exploitées (principalement la langoustine, Nephrops norvegicus, et le merlu, Merluccius merluccius) et leurs concurrents et proies, une analyse des isotopes sables du carbone (13C/12C) et de l'azote (15N/14N) a été réalisée pour étudier les différents niveaux trophiques et mettre en évidence l'existence de différentes sources de nourriture potentielles des communautés benthiques et démersales. Cinq principaux groupes trophiques constituent la base de la structure de la chaîne alimentaire. Trois niveaux trophiques ont été identifiés : consommateurs primaires, consommateurs secondaires (N. norvegicus et les juvéniles de M. merluccius) et les supers prédateurs comme les adultes de M. merluccius (δ15N = 14,5 ). Les grandes différences de δ13C au sein des consommateurs primaires attestent de deux différentes sources de nourriture : l'une pélagique composée de matière organique particulaire fraîche sédimentant, qui alimente principalement les suspensivores supra- et épi-benthiques, et le zooplancton et l'autre benthique qui alimente les déposivores. Les changements de régimes alimentaires des prédateurs, l'espèce cible et leurs compétiteurs, au cours de leur vie, se traduisent par des différences isotopiques entre les différentes classes de taille.

11/147: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/generalisedmodelofprimaryproductioninthesouthernbenguelaupwellingsystem> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Generalised model of primary production in the southern Benguela upwelling system
We provide a proof-of-concept demonstration using a novel method for estimating depth-integrated distributions of chlorophyll from archives of data from ships, buoys or gliders combined with remotely sensed data of sea surface temperature (SST) and surface chlorophyll a (chl a) from satellites. Our area of application has contrasting hydrographic regimes, which include the dynamic southern Benguela upwelling system and the stratified waters of the Agulhas Bank, South Africa. The method involves using self-organising maps (SOMs), a type of artificial neural network, to identify ‘typical' chl a profiles regardless of their statistical form, provided several of a similar shape have been found in the training set. These are arranged in a linear array, ranging from uniform profiles low in chl a to profiles with high surface or subsurface peaks. We then use generalised modelling to relate these characteristic profiles to remotely sensed surface features, viz. surface chl a and SST, as well as area, season, and water depth (a proxy for distance offshore). The model accounts for 87% of the variability in chl a profile and is used to predict the type of profile likely for each pixel in monthly remote sensing composites of SST and surface chl a and then to estimate integrated chl a and primary production with the aid of a light model. Primary production peaks in mid-summer, reaching 5 mgC m–2 d–1 locally, with an average over the whole area and all seasons of 1.4 mgC m–2 d–1. Seasonal variation is greatest in the southern part of the west coast, and lowest in the stratified southeast. Annual primary production for the southern Benguela region including the Agulhas Bank is ca. 156 million tC yr–1. This is the most robust estimate of primary production in the Benguela system to date because it combines the spatial and temporal coverage provided by remote sensing with realistic vertical chl a profiles.



97) Recherche du mot : Renard (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alopias_vulpinus)


98) Recherche du mot : La taille minimale de capture (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/minimal_capture_length)


99) Recherche du mot : Grey reef shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_amblyrhynchos)


100) Recherche du mot : interaction écologique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ecological_interaction)


101) Recherche du mot : Atule mate (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/atule_mate)


102) Recherche du mot : Scientific activity (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/scientific_activity)


103) Recherche du mot : Bougainville (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bougainville)


104) Recherche du mot : Cloud (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/cloud)


105) Recherche du mot : Stromateidae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/stromateidae)


106) Recherche du mot : Ecosystème de Somalie (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/somali_ecosystem)


107) Recherche du mot : Caranx ignobilis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/caranx_ignobilis)


108) Recherche du mot : Aire marine protégée Somalienne (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ampExampleCaseStudy)


109) Recherche du mot : Longtail tuna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_tonggol)


110) Recherche du mot : Scomberomorus maculatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_maculatus)


111) Recherche du mot : Houle (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/swell)
1/148: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/chantiergolfedegascogne> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Chantier Golfe de gascogne
L'action des engins de pêche sur le fond a déjà été décrite, filmée. La comparaison de prélèvements dans le secteur de la Grande Vasière réalisés à 30 ans d'intervalle met en évidence une évolution de la faune et de la nature du fond (Le Loch, 2004). Mais peu de chiffres argumentés permettent de quantifier l'impact des engins de pêche sur le fond.
Cette étude pluridisciplinaire se base sur :
- une connaissance de la structure sédimentaire du plateau de la Grande Vasière,
- une analyse des phénomènes en jeu dans le cycle dépôt-remobilisation de la colonne sédimentaire (apports fluviaux, front thermo-halin, houle, courant, organismes fouisseurs,….),
- une typologie des engins de pêche utilisés sur le plateau et un descriptif (largeur balayée, enfoncement, …) de l'action de chacun des éléments (bourrelet, chaîne, bras, panneau)
- une sélection de l'effort de pêche 2003 pour 6 classes de longueur de navire, 9 carrés statistiques, 2 types d'engin (chalut simple ou jumeau) et 2 types de prises (langoustines ou non : différenciation des efforts focalisés sur la Grande Vasière de ceux également répartis dans les carrés statistiques ).
Les résultats portent sur la surface balayée et la quantité de sédiments fins remis en suspension. La paramétrisation des formules permet de tester l'influence de tels ou tels éléments dans le bilan global.
Ainsi chaque mètre carré de la Grande Vasière est balayé au minimum 6 fois par an. La remobilisation des sédiments fins par les engins de pêche est comparable à la remobilisation par les tempêtes.



112) Recherche du mot : fan (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fan)


113) Recherche du mot : Narrow-barred Spanish mackerel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_commerson)


114) Recherche du mot : Economie (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/economy)
1/149: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelisationbioeconomiquedelapecheriesdepoulpesenmauritaniealaidedumodeleanalytiquekrakenannexeaurapportdelacommisionsocioeconomie> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Modélisation bio-économique de la pêcheries de poulpes en Mauritanie à l'aide du modèle analytique « kraken », annexe au Rapport de la commision Socio-Economie




115) Recherche du mot : is predator of (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/is_predator_of)


116) Recherche du mot : baliste (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/balistes_capriscus)


117) Recherche du mot : Débarquement (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/unloading)
1/150: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/changesinthetrophicstructureoffishdemersalcommunitiesinwestafricainthethreelastdecades> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Changes in the trophic structure of fish demersal communities in West Africa in the three last decades
Les écosystèmes marins en Afrique de l'Ouest sont très productifs et ont permis à d'importantes pêcheries de se développer rapidement au cours des dernières décennies. L'analyse de l'impact de la pêche sur les ressources exploitées est couramment conduite par des évaluations de type monospécifique. Dans cette étude, nous proposons une approche alternative qui permettrait de mieux intégrer la dimension écosystémique. En Guinée et au Sénégal, les pêcheries se sont développées récemment, parallèlement la collecte des données de débarquement et de campagnes scientifiques s'est mise en place. Aussi, les données couvrent toute une période depuis la date où les stocks étaient considérés comme non exploités jusqu'à la situation de surexploitation actuelle. Ce cas d'étude est analysé afin de regarder les changements intervenus dans la structure de l'écosystème, en particulier ceux qui pourraient être expliqués par l'augmentation de la pression de pêche. Pour cela, nous estimons des spectres trophiques et des séries de niveaux trophiques moyens pour les communautés de poissons démersaux. Un spectre trophique permet de montrer la répartition de la biomasse de l'écosystème ou la position des captures commerciales dans la chaîne trophique selon des classes de niveaux trophiques. Nous observons des changements importants dans la structure des écosystèmes guinéens et sénégalais. En particulier, la biomasse des hauts niveaux trophiques diminue tandis que celle des bas niveaux trophiques augmente ou reste relativement stable. Cette observation est peut être liée à un effet « Top-Down » du au relâchement de la prédation sur les bas niveaux trophiques. Au Sénégal, la même tendance est observée avec les donnée de captures. Par ailleurs, le niveau trophique moyen diminue significativement autant pour les captures que pour la biomasse. En Guinée, seule une diminution de la biomasse est observée en zone côtière. Globalement, ces résultats montrent que les activités de pêche ont un impact sur la structure trophique des écosystèmes et pour la première fois un effet « fishing down marine food web » est montré en Afrique de l'Ouest.



118) Recherche du mot : marine bird (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/marine_bird)
1/151: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.



119) Recherche du mot : Carite chinigua (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_regalis)


120) Recherche du mot : Tylosurus crocodilus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tylosurus_crocodilus)


121) Recherche du mot : Anomalie du niveau de la mer (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seaLevelAnomaly)


122) Recherche du mot : Thon rouge (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bft)
1/152: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lethonrougeunavenirmenace> : SCORE = 4.9132643
Doc : Le thon rouge : un avenir menacé ?


2/153: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/menacessurlethonrouge> : SCORE = 5.732142
Doc : Menaces sur le thon rouge


3/154: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/pecheursdethonsetconservationdesressourcesdehautemermenacessurlethonrougedemediterranee> : SCORE = 2.866071
Doc : Pêcheurs de thons et conservation des ressources de haute mer : menaces sur le thon rouge de Méditerranée ?




123) Recherche du mot : Mangrove red snapper (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_indica)


124) Recherche du mot : AUV (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/AUV)


125) Recherche du mot : Steaming activity (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/steaming_activity)


126) Recherche du mot : Ecologie (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ecology)


127) Recherche du mot : Isurus oxyrinchus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/isurus_oxyrinchus)


128) Recherche du mot : indicator (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/indicator)
1/155: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/indicatorsquantifyingsmallpelagicfishinteractionsapplicationusingatrophicmodelofthesouthernbenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Indicators quantifying small pelagic fish interactions: application using a trophic model of the southern Benguela ecosystem
Three indicators quantifying interactions between species are developed for an upwelling system to provide useful measures for the comparison of marine ecosystem structure and function. Small pelagic fish are dominant in upwelling systems, and by definition, they are pivotal in a wasp-waist upwelling system. The indicator of interaction strength (IS) quantifies the effect that a change in biomass of one group has on abundance of other groups. The functional impact (FI) indicator quantifies the trophic impacts of species on their own and other functional groups or feeding guilds. The trophic replacement (TR) indicator quantifies the trophic similarity between a species that is removed from an ecosystem and other species in that ecosystem, i.e. it quantifies the ability of one group to trophically replace another. A trophic model of the southern Benguela ecosystem is used as an example for the application of the indicators. The strong similarities in trophic functioning of the southern Benguela ecosystem in the anchovy-dominated system of the 1980s, and the 1990s when there was a shift towards greater sardine abundance, are explained by the mutual trophic replacement abilities of anchovy and sardine. Differences between the proposed indicators and mixed trophic impact assessment are highlighted, mainly resulting from the static versus dynamic nature of the models upon which they are based. Trophic indicators such as those presented here, together with other kinds of ecosystem indicators, may assist in defining operational frameworks for ecosystem-based fisheries management.
© 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

2/156: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trendsinprimaryproductionseasurfacetemperatureandwindinupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Trends in primary production, sea surface temperature and wind in upwelling systems (1998-2007)
We take advantage of the longest high quality single-sensor global data set of ocean color available today to explore recent trends in the primary productivity of the main eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUEs): California, Canary, Humboldt and Benguela. The chlorophyll-a concentration is used as a proxy for primary production. SST data from AVHRR and wind speed data from QuikSCAT are used in conjunction with this data set to analyse forcing mechanisms explaining the chlorophyll biomass.
Whereas the worldwide primary-production biomass shows on average decreasing trends, as already observed in the stratified part of the worldwide ocean, the productivity of most EBUEs increases during the study period. These contrasting trends are both significant, at least for the mid latitude range of 50°S-50°N, where the data coverage is sufficient for accurate estimation.
Probably due to the large scale atmospheric forcing, trends in sea surface temperature (SST) show non-significant relationships with the trends in biomass within upwelling systems, suggesting that SST anomalies cannot be used as an indicator of change in upwelling intensity in a continuous warming context. On the other hand, upwelling favourable equatorward winds show a significant correlation with the observed trends in biomass, suggesting that the trends in the trade winds are probably linked to an increase in the intensity of the Hadley cell circulation observed during the last several decades.

3/157: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/simulatingandtestingthesensitivityofecosystembasedindicatorstofishinginthesouthernbenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Simulating and testing the sensitivity of ecosystem-based indicators to fishing in the southern Benguela ecosystem
The sensitivity of size-based, species-based, and trophodynamic indicators is examined for the fish community of the southern Benguela ecosystem (South Africa) through simulations of different fishing scenarios using the multispecies model OSMOSE. The simulations suggest that it may be erroneous to consider one absolute reference direction of change for any indicator because the direction of change is specific to both the multispecies assemblage and the fishing scenario considered. The analysis of species versus community indicators is helpful for understanding which processes drive the emergent properties of the ecosystem. Informative about the structure and state of the ecosystem, both types of indicators weighted by biomass or by abundance should be used to evaluate ecosystem changes. Indicators characterizing size distribution (e.g., slope of size spectrum) appear to be more helpful in distinguishing the cause of ecosystem changes than mean community indicators because their response is specific to the fishing scenario simulate 
(i.e., global or hake-targeting fishing). Some indicators do not seem to be sensitive to fishing pressure (slope of the diversity size spectrum) or do not vary consistently with other studies (W statistic).

4/158: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/whythenumberofhooksperbaskethpbisnotagoodproxyindicatorofthemaximumfishingdepthindriftinglonglinefisheries> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Why the number of hooks per basket (HPB) is not a good proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth in drifting longline fisheries?
The effects of targeting in longline fisheries have major impacts on CPUE (catch per unit effort). To target large pelagic fishes in longline fisheries, fishermen deployed several tactics according to the target species. For a given species, the tactic depends on both the season and the fishing ground. One of major aims of the fishing tactic is to set the longline for optimizing the overlap between the distribution of hook depths and the supposed preferential vertical habitat of the target species. Thus, the maximum fishing depth (MFD) of the longline is recognized as a key parameter for estimating the distribution of hook depths and then to standardize fishing effort. In this context, the number of hooks per basket (HPB) is commonly used as a proxy indicator of MFD (this information has been collected for the Japanese longline fishery since 1975). Unfortunately HPB is not a good proxy indicator of MFD. In the first part of this work we illustrate why our previous affirmation is consistent from a theoretical point of view. Second, we analyse depth series recorded with time depth recorders (TRDs) at the deepest point of the mainline (data collected during instrumented longline experiments carried out in the French Polynesia EEZ, central South Pacific). We observe variations of depths recorded during the soak time and we compare the calculated mean depth of depth series with the theoretical MFD (catenary formula). The mean depth appears as the better proxy indicator of the MFD which can be used to estimate the distribution of hook depths. Finally, we discuss relevant data which must be collected by both observers and fishermen in order to improve analysis of the fishing effort in longline fisheries. These data are crucial to standardize appropriately longline CPUE and to correct for potential bias. Statistical models (even the most sophisticated, such as habitat based model, GLM, GAM, GLMM or neural networks) could not supplant for the lack of such input information.

5/159: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usingsizebasedindicatorstoevaluatetheecosystemeffectsoffishing> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Using size-based indicators to evaluate the ecosystem effects of fishing
The usefulness and relevance of size-based indicators (SBIs) to an ecosystem approach to fisheries (EAF) are assessed through a review of empirical and modelling studies. SBIs are tabulated along with their definitions, data requirements, potential biases, availability of time-series, and expected directions of change in response to fishing pressure. They include mean length in a population, mean length in a community, mean maximum length in a community, and the slope and intercept of size spectra. Most SBIs can be derived from fairly standard survey data on length frequencies, without the need for elaborate models. Possible fishing- and environment-induced effects are analysed to distinguish between the two causes, and hypothetical cases of reference directions of change are tabulated. We conclude that no single SBI can serve as an effective overall indicator of heavy fishing pressure. Rather, suites of SBI should be selected, and reference directions may be more useful than reference points. Further modelling and worldwide comparative studies are needed to provide better understanding of SBIs and the factors affecting them. The slow response to fishing pressure reflects the complexity of community interactions and ecosystem responses, and prohibits their application in the context of short-term (annual) tactical fisheries management. However, movement towards longer-term (5–10 years) strategic management in EAF should facilitate their use.

6/160: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usagesdesindicateursdedeveloppementdurableentreoffreetdemandedindicateurs> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Usages des indicateurs de développement durable : entre offre et demande d'indicateurs
There exist a demand of indicators of sustainable development to which scientist from different
disciplines try to answer through a supply. The way the supply matches the demand is far from being
evident. To deal with this question we can take place at the interface, considering the use of indicators.
This entry was chosen as the central theme of a meeting devoted to the use of indicators for
sustainable development, held at Montpellier (April 3 and 4, 2006). We consider here the complexity
of the relationship between the needs of actors, that may be formulated in several ways, and the supply
by the scientists that can also be provided through several methods, including co-construction ones
that are supposed to be well adapted for decision support purposes. It appears that the elaboration of
indicators can be realized through various combinations of top-down and bottom-up processes, and
that no optimal standardised solution can be identified. Finally, we propose that the indicator has a
sole existence traduced by a trajectory in which it supports a social process around the question to
which it is dedicated.

7/161: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fluctuatingasymmetryinfishotolithsandheterozygosityinstressfulestuarineenvironmentswestafrica> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Fluctuating asymmetry in fish otoliths and heterozygosity in stressful estuarine environments (West Africa)
Fluctuating asymmetry (FA) is assumed to reflect the developmental instability caused by environmental or genetic stress. Fish otoliths represent a very good tool for investigating the consequence of different effects on FA. Otolith FA analysis, coupled with genetic analysis, has been undertaken on two common West African estuarine species, Ethmalosa fimbriata (EFI) and Sarotherodon melanotheron (SME), in two neighbouring estuaries, in order to highlight the impact of salinity on developmental stability. The Gambia estuary has a normal functioning and the Saloum estuary is inverse (saltier waters in the upper river), reaching extremely high salinities (>100 psu) and constituting severe environmental stress. Five sub-populations of EFI and six of SME were studied along a salinity gradient. The differences between right and left otoliths were estimated with image processing by measuring five dimensions (area, perimeter, diameter, rostrum and posterior radii). Analyses of genetic differentiation at three EPIC and one anonymous nuclear gene loci for EFI and six polymorphic enzymatic loci for SME were carried out to measure the level of heterozygosity. Absolute FA in all otolith traits examined was unaffected by gender but increased significantly with fish size. Size-corrected absolute FA did not show any significant difference among sites differing largely in salinity, although a higher asymmetry in otolith area was recorded in the saltiest site. These findings suggest that otolith asymmetry is a poor indicator of osmotic stress. The individual heterozygosity level did not seem to have an effect on otolith FA for either species, even though a slight correlation appeared with otolith area or perimeter. Otolith FA cannot be considered to be a useful indicator for estimating changes linked with environmental or genetic stress in these estuaries.

8/162: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/levytrajectoriesofperuvianpurseseinersasanindicatorofthespatialdistributionofanchovyengraulisringens> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Levy trajectories of Peruvian purse-seiners as an indicator of the spatial distribution of anchovy (Engraulis ringens)
Analogous to other top predators foraging on patchy resources, the spatial behaviour of fishers provides information on the spatial organization of fish. Focusing on the Peruvian anchovy purse-seine fishery, vessel monitoring system data are used to describe fishing vessels' trajectories, and acoustic survey data to characterize anchovy spatial distribution. Vessel trajectories were analysed in terms of move-length distribution, whereas fish distribution was characterized by spatial extent, concentration, and fractal dimension. Fishers perform Levy flights that can be characterized by a single statistic (mu); mu is significantly correlated with the fractal dimension of fish distribution. It is argued that the Levy statistic is a good candidate for an ecosystem indicator that might contribute to realtime monitoring of ecosystems.

9/163: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicsignatureofcoralreeffishassemblagestowardsapotentialindicatorofecosystemdisturbance> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Trophic signature of coral reef fish assemblages: towards a potential indicator of ecosystem disturbance
Face to the increasing anthropogenic disturbances that affect coral reef ecosystems, it becomes urgent to define appropriate ecological indicators for monitoring purposes. One useful approach is to search for a simplified description of the structure of biological communities that are highly diverse and complex on coral reefs. To this end, we propose to represent the trophic structure of coral reef fish assemblages by using fractional trophic levels assigned to each fish species. Fish abundance trophic spectra (i.e., the distributions of fish abundance per trophic level) were established for the fringing reefs of two bays located in the city of Noumea (New Caledonia). The comparison of these trophic spectra revealed a similar trophic structure in the two bays, in spite of contrasted levels of fish abundance due to habitat damages. The embayment degree was characterized by changes in the fish trophic structure, reflecting a decreasing influence of urban and industrial wastes discharged in the bottom of the bays. This case of study shows the interest of using fractional trophic levels for the description of highly diverse biological communities. The trophic level-based approach offers new prospects in the search for ecological indicators, by characterizing the structure of biological communities by trophic signatures which testify to the disturbance level affecting their environment.

10/164: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/relationshipsbetweenbenthicmacrofaunaandhabitatsuitabilityforjuvenilecommonsolesoleasolealinthevilaineestuarybayofbiscayfrancenurseryground> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Relationships between benthic macrofauna and habitat suitability for juvenile common sole (Solea solea, L.) in the Vilaine estuary (Bay of Biscay, France) nursery ground
Coastal and estuarine systems are among the most threatened by human activities which damage their ecological function and, in particular, their nursery role for many marine species. In this context, the protection of these vital ecosystems is a critical issue for the management of fisheries resources. To that aim, functional approaches have to be developed that make it possible to assess habitat suitability and quality. The common sole, Solea solea (L.) was selected as an indicator species to identify the features of coastal and estuarine nursery habitats in the Bay of Biscay (France). Previous studies have shown that young-of-the-year (YOY) sole are strongly dependent upon various abiotic factors, and especially bathymetry, sediment cover and the extent of river plumes. We investigated whether taking into account biological variables, based on benthic macrofauna biomasses aggregated into trophic group, may improve the description of the juvenile sole distribution in the Vilaine estuary nursery. Results from Generalised Linear Models demonstrated the importance of integrating these biological variables in the determination of juvenile habitats at a local scale. The abundance of YOY sole was correlated with an index of the benthic invertebrates biomass and, more specifically, with the biomass of suspension feeders. This result was reinforced by a one-dimensional spatial statistical analysis, which pointed out the similar distribution of invertebrate macrobenthos and juvenile sole along the upstream/downstream gradient of the estuary. Moreover, the inter-annual variations of abundance and distribution of juveniles were synchronous with those of the macrobenthos.

11/165: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/useandlimitsofthreemethodsforassessingfishsizespectraandfishabundanceintwotropicalmanmadelakes> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Use and limits of three methods for assessing fish size spectra and fish abundance in two tropical man-made lakes
A comparative study, combining three different assessment methods (fish gillnet sampling, artisanal fisheries surveys and hydroacoustics) was conducted in Mali where two man-made reservoirs (Sélingué and Manantali) are particularly suited for investigating the impact of fishing effort on the fish assemblage. These two ecosystems have relatively similar areas, edaphic and environmental properties but are subjected to different levels of fishing exploitation (low at Manantali, high at Sélingué). The comparison is based on two indicator parameters: the abundance indices and the size spectra distributions, obtained by the three methods at two contrasting hydrological seasons (April and October). The results were compared first between the two seasons, and then between the two lakes. The present work is based on two main hypotheses: (1) that there is a higher fish abundance in October associated with smaller overall sizes, after spawning; (2) a lower abundance and smaller sizes in the Sélingué reservoir than in Manantali, because of the much higher fishing pressure in Sélingué. The relevance of each method to the selected indicators is discussed. On the one hand, the three methodologies on the whole gave similar conclusions and they also complement each other. On the other hand, some results do not match the hypotheses because of biases due to difficulties and technical limitations of each method in such ecosystems (shallow water with vegetation and stumps of former forests).

12/166: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/migratoryshearwatersintegrateoceanicresourcesacrossthepacificoceaninanendlesssummer> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Migratory shearwaters integrate oceanic resources across the Pacific Ocean in an endless summer
Electronic tracking tags have revolutionized our understanding of broad-scale movements and habitat use of highly mobile marine animals, but a large gap in our knowledge still remains for a wide range of small species. Here, we report the extraordinary transequatorial postbreeding migrations of a small seabird, the sooty shearwater, obtained with miniature archival tags that log data for estimating. position, dive depth, and ambient temperature. Tracks (262 +/- 23 days) reveal that shearwaters fly across the entire Pacific Ocean in a figure-eight pattern while traveling 64,037 +/- 9,779 km roundtrip, the longest animal migration ever recorded electronically. Each shearwater made a prolonged stopover in one of three discrete regions off Japan, Alaska, or California before returning to New Zealand through a relatively narrow corridor in the central Pacific Ocean. Transit rates as high as 910 +/- 186 km(.)day(-1) were recorded, and shearwaters accessed prey resources in both the Northern and Southern Hemisphere's most productive waters from the surface to 68.2 m depth. Our results indicate that sooty shearwaters integrate oceanic resources throughout the Pacific Basin on a yearly scale. Sooty shearwater populations today are declining, and because they operate on a global scale, they may serve as an important indicator of climate change and ocean health.

13/167: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/indicatorsofsustainablefishingforsouthafricansardinesardinopssagaxandanchovyengraulisencrasicolus> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Indicators of sustainable fishing for South African sardine Sardinops sagax and anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus
Six indicators were investigated for South African sardine Sardinops sagax and anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus: mean length of catch, length-at-50% maturity, total mortality, exploitation rate, ratio of bycatch, and centre of gravity of commercial catches. Sardine length-at-50% maturity is  the most promising as a descriptive indicator because it is positively correlated with population  size for an extensive time period (1953–2005). The remaining indicators were limited by shorter data-series (1984–2005). However, mean length of catch, ratio of bycatch and exploitation rate  were found to be useful when considered in conjunction with other indicators. The centre of gravity of commercial sardine catches has shown a significant eastward shift from the West Coast, whereas that of anchovy has remained off that coast. Ratio of bycatch indicates that school composition is a reliable descriptive indicator of relative abundance in the two species. Fewer indicators for anchovy were useful, which is attributed to this species' flexible life-history pattern.

14/168: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thetrophicspectrumtheoryandapplicationasanecosystemindicator> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : The trophic spectrum: theory and application as an ecosystem indicator
Trophic spectra represent the distribution of biomass, abundance, or catch by trophic level, and may be used as indicators of the trophic structure and functioning of aquatic ecosystems in a fisheries context. As a theoretical background, we present a simple ecosystem model of biomass flow reflecting predation and ontogenetic processes. Biomass trophic spectrum of total biomass can be modelled as the result of three major factors and processes: trophic efficiency, transfer kinetics, and extent of top-down control. In the simulations, changes in the spectrum highlight fishing impacts on trophic structure and reveal some functional characteristics of the underlying ecosystem. As examples of potential applications, three case studies of trophic spectra are presented. Catch trophic spectra allow description of structural differences among European fishing areas and periods. Abundance trophic spectra of coral-reef fish assemblages display different trophic signatures, characterizing different reef habitats in New Caledonia and highlighting fishing effects in a marine protected area context. Biomass trophic spectra of demersal resources off Northwest Africa show a shift in ecosystem structure that can be attributed to the rapid increase in fishing pressure during the past few decades. Off Senegal, total biomass remained fairly constant, suggesting a strong top-down control linked to fisheries targeting high trophic level species. Off Guinea, exploitation rates are spread over a wider range of trophic levels, and the total biomass of demersal resources tended to decrease. The trophic spectrum is concluded to be a useful indicator describing and comparing systems in time and space, detecting phase shifts linked to natural or anthropogenic perturbations, and revealing differences in ecosystem functioning.

15/169: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitymodeloftrophicinteractionsinmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Viability model of trophic interactions in marine ecosystems
An attempt to use viability models for studying marine ecosystems is proposed as a possible alternative to classical ecosystem modeling. Viability models do not consider optimal solutions but instead define all possible evolutions of a dynamical system under given constraints. Applied to marine ecosystems, a viability model is formulated based on the trophic coefficients of a mass-balanced model. This requires relatively few assumptions about the processes involved and can integrate uncertainty associated with the required estimates of input parameters. An iterative algorithm is proposed to calculate the viability kernel, i.e., the envelope of all viable trajectories of the ecosystem. An application to the Benguela ecosystem is presented, considering interactions between detritus, phytoplankton, zooplankton, pelagicfis h, demersal fish and fisheries. Results show how a viability kernel could be used to better define the healthy states of a marine ecosystem, by defining what states should be avoided. The paper discusses how viability models of trophic interactions could help to define a new ecosystem-based indicator for fisheries management. It then discusses how this approach can potentially contribute to a paradigm shift that is emerging in the management of renewable resources.

16/170: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/esessioniotc> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : 8e session IOTC
The number of hooks between floats (HBF) is classically considered in standardization studies of the longline fishing effort as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. The explanation of this choice is easy for understanding : an increase of the HBF (then an increase of the length of the mainline between floats represents a increase in fishing depths. Probably, this relationship has been valid for traditional longlines until the end of eighties. However, the modernization of the fishing gear (monofilament mainline, shooter, snaps) has considerably modified the tradition and has led to a wide diversification of setting tactics. As a related consequence of this modernization, HBF has lost his property as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. In this work, we show briefly why the relationship between HPB and the maximum fishing depth is artificial. This hypothesis is supported from a comparative analysis of temporal series of the average HBF and the weight contribution of albacore and bigeye in catches. This fact underlines the problem of the use of HBF in the frame of the measure of the effective fishing effort in longline fisheries (GLM approach). In this context, the necessity of additional information characterizing longlining strategies is discussed.



129) Recherche du mot : Polyprion spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/polyprion_spp)


130) Recherche du mot : Océano Índico (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/indianOcean)


131) Recherche du mot : Diaphus mollis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diaphus_mollis)


132) Recherche du mot : tapis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/tapis_tri)


133) Recherche du mot : glacis continental (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/continental_rise)


134) Recherche du mot : senne exemple (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/fisheryWithSeineExampleCaseStudy)


135) Recherche du mot : Funchalia taaningi (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/funchalia_taaningi)


136) Recherche du mot : Spot-tail shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_sorrah)


137) Recherche du mot : oriental flying gurnard (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/dactyloptena_orientalis)


138) Recherche du mot : Rabil (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_albacares)
1/171: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evoluciondelascapturasdejuvenilesderabilypatudodesdelaextenciondelapescasobreobjectosbalizados> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Evolucion de las capturas de juveniles de rabil y patudo desde la extencion de la pesca sobre objectos balizados
This document analyses the distribution of the catch of small yellowfin obtained for the entire
purse seine tuna fishing fleet in the Atlantic Ocean from 1991 to 2003. Catches have been
analysed by year, month, area and fishing mode (free school or floating object), in order to
define areas, seasons and fishing mode associated with largest catches of small yellowfin and
the possible relationship with the moratoria established to reduce juvenile bigeye catches.

2/172: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabiladultothunnusalbacaresdelaflotadecercotropicaleuropeaeneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Actualizacion de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil adulto (thunnus albacares) de la flota de cerco tropical europea en el oceano atlantico de 1980 a 2006
This document presents a standardized index update of adult yellowfin (>30 kg) of tropical purse seine fleets in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006. The data used were taken from spear fishing logbooks and detailed information of the fleet. The standardization has been carried out by generalized linear models (GLM) using the delta model. The standardized indices are obtained from the GLM model estimations: one is calculated from the least squares means (LSMeans) and another from the annual averages of the adjusted values. The variability of the latter is lower. Therefore, in this case, it is a more adequate index to be used in assessment models. The year, country, category, age of vessel and catches of skipjack tuna, which is the other target species of these fleets, were considered as explanatory variables.

3/173: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabildelaflotadecercotropicaleneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Actualización de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil de la flota de cerco tropical en el océano Atlántico de 1980 a 2006.
En este documento se presenta una actualización del índice estandarizado de rabil adulto (>30 Kg.) de las flotas de cerco tropical en el océano Atlántico desde 1980 hasta 2006. Los datos utilizados provienen de los cuadernos de pesca por lance e información pormenorizada de la flota. La estandarización se ha realizado mediante modelos lineales generalizados (GLM) utilizando el método delta. De las estimaciones de los modelos glm se obtienen dos índices estandarizados: uno calculado a partir de las medias mínimo cuadráticas (LSMeans) y otro a partir de los promedios anuales de los valores ajustados. La variabilidad de este último es menor, por lo que, en este caso, es un índice más adecuado para su utilización en los modelos de evaluación. Como variables explicativas se han considerado el año, país, categoría, antigüedad del barco y la captura de listado, la otra especie objetivo de las flotas.



139) Recherche du mot : inter specific interaction (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/interSpecificInteraction)


140) Recherche du mot : Scomberesox saurus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberesox_saurus)


141) Recherche du mot : Aqua (EOS PM) satellite (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/aqua)


142) Recherche du mot : Acanthephyra sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/acanthephyra_sp)


143) Recherche du mot : Dermochelys coriacea (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/dermochelys_coriacea)
1/174: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thermalandtrophichabitatsoftheleatherbackturtleduringthenestingseasoninfrenchguiana> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Thermal and trophic habitats of the leatherback turtle during the nesting season in French Guiana
Understanding environmental cues determining behaviour and habitat use of species of conservation
concern is crucial if one aims at implementing sustainable management of these natural resources. In this
way, here, we investigate the thermal and trophic conditions encountered by the critically endangered
leatherback sea turtle Dermochelys coriacea during its nesting season in French Guiana where high bycatch
rates have been reported.
Mean sea water temperatures obtained in situ by animal-borne recorders were 26.6±0.7 °C in the water
column, with all but one turtle remaining in water N25 °C during the inter-nesting interval. In terms of prey
availability, regular jellyfish stranding events were recorded during the nesting season, on a 1.25-km long
section of the nesting beach. The occurrence of jellyfish was supported by benthic trawls performed on the
continental shelf, with a total of 45.4 kg of jellyfish collected in 3.5 h exclusively in coastal waters 10 to 20 m
deep where water transparency was between 0.8 and 3 m. This is consistent with the at sea distribution area
of gravid leatherbacks during their inter-nesting intervals, as they spent almost 70% of their time diving in
shallow (b20 m deep) waters in front of the Maroni River estuary. In French Guiana, leatherback's gelatinous
prey are thus present in very shallow water close to the nesting site and may be easily exploited by active
gravid leatherbacks. This suggests that French Guiana female leatherbacks may be influenced by local trophic
conditions and actively prospect productive areas overlapping with local fisheries ground.



144) Recherche du mot : population (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/population)
1/175: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/roleofpredationbyharpsealspagophilusgroenlandicusinthecollapseandnonrecoveryofnortherngulfofstlawrencecodgadusmorhua> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Role of predation by harp seals Pagophilus groenlandicus in the collapse and non-recovery of northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod Gadus morhua
A statistical catch-at-age model was developed to assess the effects of predation by the northwest Atlantic harp seal population on northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod by estimating the relative importance of different sources of mortality that affected the stock during a period of collapse and non-recovery. Cod recruitment at age 1 is modeled via a non-linear stock-recruitment relationship based on total egg production and accounts for changes in female length-at-maturity and cod condition. Natural mortality other than seal predation also depends on cod condition used as an integrative index of changes in environmental conditions. The linkage between seals and cod is modeled through a multi-age functional response that was derived from the reconstruction of the seal diet using morphometric relationships and stomach contents of more than 200 seals collected between 1998 and 2001. The model was fitted following a maximum likelihood estimation approach to a scientific survey abundance index (1984 to 2006). Model results show that the collapse of the northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod stock was mainly due to the combination of high fishing mortality rates and poor environmental conditions in the early to mid-1990s contributing to the current state of recruitment overfishing. The increase in harp seal abundance during 1984 to 2006 was reflected by an increase in predation mortality for the young cod age-groups targeted by seals. Although current levels of predation mortality affect cod spawning biomass, the lack of recovery of the NGSL cod stock seems mainly due to the very poor recruitment.

2/176: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lessonsfromthepastinvestigatinghistoricaldatafrombluefintunafisheries> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Lessons from the past : investigating historical data from bluefin tuna fisheries
In 1963, the leading fisheries targeting Atlantic bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus) in the Norwegian Sea and North Sea suddenly collapsed without any warning. Little is known about this collapse and several hypotheses have been put forward, such as changes in migratory routes, recruitment failure or eradication of a sub-population: all of these hypotheses could result from natural causes and/or from overfishing. To help explain this mysterious event, an original data set of the main bluefin tuna fisheries of the 20th century, including total catch and size composition of the catch, has been compiled and analysed. The results reveal a strong and unambiguous link between the Nordic purse seine and Spanish trap fisheries during the 1950s and 1960s. However, this link vanished during the 1970s. In addition, the North-west Atlantic and Mediterranean trap fisheries appeared also to be partially connected to the Nordic fisheries. During the 1950s and 1960s, the main migration routes of bluefin tuna were probably from the Mediterranean spawning grounds and from the West Atlantic coasts to the Norwegian coast and North Sea, which were probably a key feeding ground at that time. The analyses also lead to the conclusion that interactions between environmental, trophic and fishing processes have probably affected bluefin tuna migration patterns which would have finally caused the Nordic fisheries collapse. This retrospective analysis finally leads to an original 2013 albeit more speculative 2013 hypothesis concerning Atlantic bluefin tuna population structure, therein conjectured as an assemblage of at least three sub-populations.

3/177: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/indicesforcapturingspatialpatternsandtheirevolutionintimewithapplicationtoeuropeanhakemerlucciusmerlucciusinthebayofbiscay> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Indices for capturing spatial patterns and their evolution in time, with application to European hake (Merluccius merluccius) in the Bay of Biscay
A series of candidate statistical indices is used in an attempt to capture spatial patterns of fish populations from research survey data. To handle diffuse population limits, indices are designed not to depend on arbitrary delineation of the domain. They characterize the location (centre of gravity and spatial patches), the occupation of space (inertia, isotropy, positive area, spreading area, and equivalent area), statistical dispersion (Gini index and coefficient of variation of strictly positive densities), and microstructure. Collocation between different ages and years is summarized by a global index of collocation. Indices are estimated for hake from a bottom-trawl data series in the Bay of Biscay in autumn of 1987-2004. The study provides a detailed description of the spatial patterns of different hake age groups, age 3 appearing to be a turning point in these dynamics. Capturing spatial patterns through indices allows the comparison of surveyed populations and identification of trends and outliers in the time-series. Spatial indices are used in a multivariate approach to obtain an overview of the relationships between the different spatial indices characterizing the spatial behaviour of six age groups of hake, and to assess their persistence through time.

4/178: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparisonoflightandsstbasedgeolocationwithsatellitetelemetryinfreerangingalbatrosses> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Comparison of light- and SST-based geolocation with satellite telemetry in free-ranging albatrosses
Light-based archival tags are increasingly being used on free-ranging marine vertebrates to study their movements using geolocation estimates. These methods use algorithms that incorporate threshold light techniques to determine longitude and latitude. More recently, researchers have begun using sea surface temperature (SST) to determine latitude in temperate regions. The accuracy and application of these algorithms have not been validated on free-ranging birds. Errors in both geolocation methods were quantified by double-tagging Laysan (Phoebastria immutabilis Rothschild) and black-footed (P. nigripes Audubon) albatrosses with both leg-mounted archival tags that measured SST and ambient light, and satellite transmitters. Laysan albatrosses were captured and released from breeding colonies on Tern Island, northwestern Hawaiian Islands (23°52′N, 166°17′W) and Guadalupe Island, Mexico (28°31′N, 118°10′W) and black-footed albatrosses from Tern Island. Studies were carried out between December 2002 and March 2003. For all birds combined, the mean ± SD great circle (GC) distance between light-based locations and satellite-derived locations was 400±298 km (n=131). Errors in geolocation positions were reduced to 202±171 km (n=154) when light-based longitude and SST-based latitude (i.e. SST/light) were used to establish locations. The SST/light method produced comparable results for two Laysan albatross populations that traveled within distinctly different oceanic regions (open ocean vs more coastal) whereas light-based methods produced greater errors in the coastal population. Archival tags deployed on black-footed albatrosses returned a significantly higher proportion of lower-quality locations, which was attributed to interference of the light sensor on the tag. Overall, the results demonstrate that combining measures of light-based longitude and SST-based latitude significantly reduces the error in location estimates for albatrosses and can provide valid latitude estimates during the equinoxes, when light-based latitude measurements are indeterminate.

5/179: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofapecosmaspatializedmassbalancedapexpredatorsecosystemmodeltostudyphysiologicallystructuredtunapopulationdynamicsintheirecosystem> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : An overview of APECOSM, a Spatialized Mass Balanced “Apex Predators ECOSystem Model” to Study Physiologically Structured Tuna Population Dynamics in their Ecosystem
This paper gives an overview of the ecosystem model APECOSM (Apex Predators ECOSystem Model) which is developed in the framework of the GLOBEC-CLIOTOP Programme. APECOSM represents the flow of energy through the ecosystem with a size-resolved structure in both space and time. The uptake and use of energy for growth, maintenance and reproduction by the organisms are modelled according to the DEB (dynamic energy budget) theory (Kooijmann, 2000) and the size-structured nature of predation is explicit. The pelagic community is divided into epipelagic and mesopelagic groups, the latter being subdivided into vertically migrant and non-migrant species. The model is mass-conservative. Energy is provided as the basis of the model through primary production and transferred through 3D spatially explicit size-spectra. Focus species (tunas at present, but any predator species can be considered) are “extracted” from the global size-spectra without losing mass balance and represented with more physiological and behavioural details. The forcing effects of temperature, currents, light, oxygen, primary production and fishing are explicitly taken into account.

6/180: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingthecombinedeffectofnutrientsandpyreneontheplanktonpopulationvalidationusingmesocosmexperimentdataandscenarioanalysis> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Modeling the combined effect of nutrients and pyrene on the plankton population: Validation using mesocosm experiment data and scenario analysis
A newintegrated model that includes a hydrodynamic model coupled with a contaminant fate and effect sub-model and an ecological sub-model is presented and validated using data from mesocosm experiments. The experiments were carried out in the Isefjord (Denmark) and include the combined effects of nutrients and pyrene addition on the lower trophic levels of bacteria, zooplankton and phytoplankton. The model was able to correctly represent the main dynamics observed in the mesocosms during the 11 days of the experiment and thereby confirmed that it is possible to represent short-term changes in the system with a simplified food-web model on a small spatial and temporal scale. Finally, the validated model was used to carry out a scenario analysis to investigate the effects of a contaminant pulse at different pyrene concentrations and different release timings. Results showed that the ecosystem's vulnerability to a pyrene pulse depends on the initial condition of the system. Stronger biomass reduction was observed when the pulse was released during the zooplankton bloom. Conversely, when the pulse was added at low biomass and before the bloom, the system showed a tendency to behave non-linearly.
© 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

7/181: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelbasedassessmentofpersistenceinproposedmarineprotectedareadesigns> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Model-based assessment of persistence  in proposed marine protected area designs
Assessment of marine protected areas (MPAs) requires the ability to quantify
the effects of proposed MPA size and placement, habitat distribution, larval dispersal, and
fishing on the persistence of protected populations. Here we describe a model-based approach
to assessment of the contribution of a network of marine protected areas to the persistence of
populations with a sedentary adult phase and a dispersing larval phase. The model integrates
the effects of a patchy spatial distribution of habitat, the spatial scale of larval dispersal, and
the level of fishing outside of reserves into a calculation of the spatial distribution of
equilibrium settlement. We use the amount of coastline predicted to have equilibrium
settlement rates that saturate post-settlement habitat as a response variable for the assessment
and comparison of MPA network designs. We apply this model to a set of recently proposed
MPA networks for the central coast of California, USA. Results show that the area of habitat
set aside is a good predictor of the area over which population levels will be high for shortdistance
dispersers. However, persistence of longer distance dispersers depends critically on
the spatial distribution of habitat and reserves, ranging from not persistent anywhere to
persistent over a greater area than that set aside in reserves. These results depend on the
mechanisms of persistence, with self-replacement supporting short-distance dispersers and
network effects supporting long-distance dispersers. Persistence also depends critically on
fishery status outside the MPAs, as well as how fishing effort is redistributed after MPA
implementation. This assessment method provides important benchmarks, as well as a
transparent modeling approach, for improving initial MPA configurations that may result
from less-comprehensive rule- or habitat-based methods of designing MPAs.

8/182: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usingsizebasedindicatorstoevaluatetheecosystemeffectsoffishing> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Using size-based indicators to evaluate the ecosystem effects of fishing
The usefulness and relevance of size-based indicators (SBIs) to an ecosystem approach to fisheries (EAF) are assessed through a review of empirical and modelling studies. SBIs are tabulated along with their definitions, data requirements, potential biases, availability of time-series, and expected directions of change in response to fishing pressure. They include mean length in a population, mean length in a community, mean maximum length in a community, and the slope and intercept of size spectra. Most SBIs can be derived from fairly standard survey data on length frequencies, without the need for elaborate models. Possible fishing- and environment-induced effects are analysed to distinguish between the two causes, and hypothetical cases of reference directions of change are tabulated. We conclude that no single SBI can serve as an effective overall indicator of heavy fishing pressure. Rather, suites of SBI should be selected, and reference directions may be more useful than reference points. Further modelling and worldwide comparative studies are needed to provide better understanding of SBIs and the factors affecting them. The slow response to fishing pressure reflects the complexity of community interactions and ecosystem responses, and prohibits their application in the context of short-term (annual) tactical fisheries management. However, movement towards longer-term (5–10 years) strategic management in EAF should facilitate their use.

9/183: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteonthestockstructureofpacificbigeyetunatobeusedinstockassessments> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Note on the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna to be used in stock assessments
This paper reviews and discusses the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna in relation with the prospects of stock assessment analysis of this population. The analysis of fishery data, mainly the spatio temporal bigeye catches by gear and by sizes, indicates that the present 150°W frontier based on historical and administrative results does not appear to be a convenient biological frontier. Our conclusion is that the present lack of significant tag recoveries across the 150°W frontier should not be considered as being significant, due to the limited numbers of bigeye presently tagged and to the great distances between present tagging locations. North South movements of adult bigeye are also a potential source of mixing between eastern and western bigeye populations. It is hypothetized that there could be an increased net flow of juvenile bigeye towards the WCPO due to the increased number of FADs in the western EPO. Our conclusion is that all the bigeye stock assessments by WCPFC and the IATTC should preferably be conducted in a unified best model and at a Pacific wide scale. A large scale tagging programme covering the distribution area of the entire bigeye population and fully coordinated between WCPFC and IATTC would be necessary to obtain realistic and age specific movement patterns at a Pacific wide level. Management actions of the bigeye stocks should also be fully coordinated between the Western and Eastern stocks, because of the probably weak biological frontier and also because of the bigeye long life span. The long term management benefits or failures will probably be shared by WCPFC and IATTC.

10/184: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/cultivationalleeeffectandresilienceoflargedemersalfishpopulations> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Cultivation, Allee effect and resilience of large demersal fish populations
In the marine environment, small forage species can predate on, or compete with, the pre-recruits of their larger predators. The “cultivation effect” hypothesis proposes that this mechanism can slow down the recovery of depleted populations of large demersal fishes by creating Allee effects that lower their recruitment success. Using an individual based fish community model applied to the southern Benguela ecosystem, we simulate situations of potential cultivation effect on a population of shallow water hake Merluccius capensis. We search for evidence of Allee effects due to cultivation and investigate how complex trophic interactions could influence their underlying mechanisms and impact. The resilience of the shallow water hake population was measured by following the variations of the ratio R/S (the number of recruits over the number of spawners) when population size decreases and the predators and competitors of shallow water hake pre-recruits were identified. Simulations suggest that cultivation effects are likely to emerge within the fish community of the southern Benguela ecosystem. Our twelve species model emphasizes that cultivation effects result from complex influences of predation and competition on the different pre-recruit stages, whose trophic role depends on both body size and geographical distribution. For realistic linkages between forage species and shallow water hake pre-recruits, cultivation effects occurring in the limits of the southern Benguela fish community are predicted to delay population recovery by several decades. These significant delays are not characterized by a decrease of R/S at low stock size, which is the sign usually tracked when looking for Allee effects. Our study suggests that cultivation effects could play a major role in the dynamics of overexploited large demersal fish populations and pleads for the development of improved detection techniques for these processes.

11/185: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/decadalenvironmentalandecologicalchangesinthecanarycurrentlargemarineecosystemandadjacentwaterspatternsofconnectionsandteleconnection> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Decadal environmental and ecological changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem and adjacent waters : Patterns of connections and teleconnection
In order to explore decadal changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem (LME), wind and SST data collected by merchant ships are extracted from the Comprehensive Ocean Atmosphere Data Set (COADS) database from 1950 to 1995 within sixteen boxes along the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from 10°N up to 43°N.  Potential biases are reviewed and discussed when considering long-term changes and large spatial resolution. The heterogeneity of the seasonal patterns in the Canary current is described.  Decadal environmental changes are explored using Sea Surface Temperature (SST) data.  In the early and mid-1970s, an intensive cooling had a large latitudinal extension that affected the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from Spain to Senegal.  This cooling period was followed by a warming period, which started in the 1980s. Fisheries, fish stock abundance as well as fish population distributions have drastically changed during the last five decades. The sardine populations off Morocco widely fluctuated in a disconnected manner and a substantial increase in biomass was observed in fishing zone C (located between 20°N and 27°N) during the mid-1970s and mid-1980s. Several outbursts of fish populations (Micromesistius poutassou, Macrorhamphosus scolopax and M. gracilis, Octopus vulgaris, Balistes carolinensis) were observed during the last three decades in the Canary Current. In the case of the latter species it was connected with the outburst populations which took place in the Gulf of Guinea LME.  Upwelling intensity and sea surface temperature are strongly linked and are thought to affect both spatial distribution and abundance of fish in the Canary Current LME.  Ecosystems appear to be connected at very large scales through climatic teleconnection between the Northern and Central Atlantic but also between the Pacific and the Atlantic as the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index and the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events seem to have a major impact on the dynamics of the upwelling in the Canary Current.

12/186: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/zooplanktonandforagefishspeciesoffperulargescalebottomupforcingandlocalscaledepletion> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Zooplankton and forage fish species off Peru: large-scale bottom-up forcing and local-scale depletion
The Humboldt Current System, like all upwelling systems, has dramatic quantities of plankton-feeding fish, which suggested that their population dynamics may ‘drive' or ‘control' ecosystem dynamics. With this in mind we analysed the relationship between forage fish populations and their main prey, zooplankton populations. Our study combined a zooplankton sampling program (1961–2005) with simultaneous acoustic observations on fish from 40 pelagic surveys (1983–2005) conducted by the Peruvian Marine Research Institute (IMARPE) and landing statistics for anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) along the Peruvian coast from 1961 to 2005. The multi-year trend of anchoveta population abundance varied consistently with zooplankton biovolume trend, suggesting bottom-up control on anchovy at the population scale (since oceanographic conditions and phytoplankton production support the changes in zooplankton abundance). For a finer-scale analysis (km) we statistically modelled zooplankton biovolume as a function of geographical (latitude and distance from the 200-m isobath), environmental (sea surface temperature), temporal (year, month and time-of-day) and biological (acoustic anchovy and sardine biomass within 5 km of each zooplankton sample) covariates over all survey using both classification and regression trees (CART) and generalized additive models (GAM). CART showed local anchoveta density to have the strongest effect on zooplankton biovolume, with significantly reduced levels of biovolume for higher neighbourhood anchoveta biomass. Additionally, zooplankton biovolume was higher offshore than on the shelf. GAM results corroborated the CART findings, also showing a clear diel effect on zooplankton biovolume, probably due to diel migration or daytime net avoidance. Apparently, the observed multi-year population scale bottom-up control is not inconsistent with local depletion of zooplankton when anchoveta are locally abundant, since the latter effect was observed over a wide range of overall anchoveta abundance.

13/187: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thekeyimportanceoftheunderlyingstockrecruitmentassumptionwhenevaluatingthepotentialofmanagementregulationsofatlanticbluefintuna> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : The key importance of the underlying stock-recruitment assumption when evaluating the potential of management regulations of Atlantic bluefin tuna
The aim of this study is to investigate the implications of different stock-recruitment assumptions when examining the potential of Dubrovnik's bluefin tuna recovery plan. To do so, some Beverton and Holt relationships displaying contrasting steepness of 0.99, 0.90, 0.75 and 0.50 were applied within a simulation model. In addition to these four stock-recruitment scenarios, parental effects and stochastic variations were also considered. The main conclusion is that our ability to evaluate the consequences of the Dubrovnik agreement (as any set of management measures) relies on our capacity to predict future recruitment levels in an accurate way. Assuming a Beverton and Holt relationship with different steepness, with or without parental effects and with or without stochastic variations led to contrasting outputs, i.e. from a significant rebuilding of the simulated population within 15 years to the crash of this same simulated population. This outcome is somewhat problematic, as we are unable to properly estimate the stock-recruitment relationship for the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock. Consequently, it is crucial to clearly state recruitment assumptions when an advice is given and to consider a significant range of contrasting and realistic stock-recruitment relationships.

14/188: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anchovyengraulisringensandsardinesardinopssagaxspatialdynamicsandaggregationpatternsinthehumboldtcurrentecosystemperufrom> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Anchovy (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) spatial dynamics and aggregation patterns in the Humboldt Current ecosystem, Peru, from 1983-2003
Three indexes of spatial aggregation are developed and used to examine the aggregation pattern of sardine (Sardinops sagax) and anchovy (Engraulis ringens) in the Peruvian Humboldt Current System, determined from 36 acoustic surveys conducted from 1983 through 2003 by the Peruvian Marine Institute (IMARPE). Each index assesses a different aspect of aggregation: the concentration, the percent occupancy of space and the clustering of high-fish abundance. Both time-series correlation and tree-based clustering-regression method, classification and regression trees (CART), were used to relate each of the indexes to environmental variables (season, temperature anomaly and year). Additionally, a measure of onshore-offshore distribution, the average distance from the coast, and abundance variables (the average acoustic backscatter per occupied sampling unit, and the acoustically estimated total abundance of sardine and anchovy from IMARPE) were related to environmental factors by using CART. We show that the 1983-2003 time series can be divided into three different periods: with shifts in 1992 and in 1997-98. Sardine and anchovy showed large differences in both abundance and aggregation among these periods. Although upwelling ecosystems support dramatic and sudden changes in environmental conditions, fish responses are sometimes smoother than usually suggested and there are transition periods with concomitant high biomasses of anchovy and sardine, but with different spatial aggregation patterns. Observed relationships between environmental proxies and aggregation patterns support the habitat-based hypothesis that environmentally mediated alterations in range lead to population changes.

15/189: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/jointeffectsofnutrientsandcontaminantsonthedynamicsofafoodchaininmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Joint effects of nutrients and contaminants on the dynamics of a food chain in marine ecosystems
We analyze the joint effect of contaminants and nutrient loading on population dynamics of marine food chains by means of bifurcation analysis. Contaminant toxicity is assumed to alter mortality of some species with a sigmoidal dose–response relationship. A generic effect of pollutants is to delay transitions to complex dynamical states towards higher nutrient load values, but more counterintuitive consequences arising from indirect effects are described. In particular, the top predator seems to be the species more affected by pollutants, even when contaminant is toxic only to lower trophic levels.
© 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

16/190: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/areviewofanalyticalapproachestoinvestigateseabirdenvironmentinteractions> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : A review of analytical approaches to investigate seabird-environment interactions
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution, and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In this paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour, and their environment in order to assess current trends, weaknesses, and future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated; and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where in most cases no behavioral information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. A vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird-environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, meso-scale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modeling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multi-scale, and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

17/191: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicstructureoftheperuvianmarineecosystemininsightsontheeffectsofmanagementscenariosforthehakefisheryusingtheibmtrophicmodelosmose> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Trophic structure of the Peruvian marine ecosystem in 2000-2006 : insights on the effects of management scenarios for the hake fishery using the IBM trophic model Osmose
The individual-based trophic model Osmose is applied to the upwelling marine ecosystem off
the coast of Peru. The dynamics and life cycle of eight major species of the Peruvian marine
ecosystem are explicitly considered in the model. Reference simulations provide an overview of
the trophic structure of the Peruvian ecosystem during the period 2000–2006. Results of model
calibration and simulations are discussed in the light of current empirical knowledge on the
trophic functioning of the Peruvian ecosystem and are compared to outputs obtained recently
using the trophic model Ecopath.
The impacts on the ecosystem of restoration plans for the depleted hake (Merluccius gayi
peruanus) population are explored through two management scenarios: a) a long term
reduction of fishing effort targeting hake and b) a moratorium on the hake fishery. The
simulations help better understand the recent failure of a 20 month hake moratorium and
provide long-term strategic support to ecosystem-based management. Limits of our approach
are discussed and recommendations are detailed for future developments of the Osmose model
and ecosystem approach to fishery management in the Peruvian context.

18/192: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofstablesignaturesdcanddnintwospidercrabpopulationsmajabrachydactylainwesterneurope> : SCORE = 1.144416
Doc : Variability of stable signatures (d13C and d15N) in two spider crab populations (Maja brachydactyla) in Western Europe
The ontogenic variations of nitrogen and carbon stable isotopic signatures (δ15N and δ13C) were investigated in two spider crab (Maja brachydactyla) populations inhabiting in different biotopes of Western Europe. The Iroise Sea population is localized in Western Brittany and characterized by a seasonal migration occurring on a large bathymetric and habitat gradient while the Seine Bay population, in the Eastern English Channel, remains in a more homogeneous environment during its migration. In the Iroise Sea population, δ13C values increased significantly both with body size and age, revealing a shift towards “benthic-component” prey with spider crab growth. On the contrary, neither body size nor ageing gave rise to a significant trophic level change (derived from the δ15N). In this M. brachydactyla population, the seasonal migrations from coastal waters in summer to offshore habitats in winter involved significant but slight differences in both δ13C and δ15N. In the Seine Bay population, low variations for both carbon and nitrogen were recorded related to either sex or size or seasonal migration. Thus, the δ13C and δ15N variability in the spider crab depends on the availability and diversity of prey in its different living habitats, as well as on the morphological aptitudes of individuals to feed on prey (individual's size).

19/193: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/aminimalmodelofthevariabilityofmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : A minimal model of the variability of marine ecosystems
In marine ecology, population abundance time series often reveal patterns, such as decadal pseudo-cycles, on scales that make them difficult to mathematically characterize by means of conventional models based on functional responses. We propose here a simple non-deterministic model based on three strong ecologicalconstraints, without any use of functional responses or external factors: (i) mass balance constraints between flows and biomass, (ii) a satiation constraint relating inflows and biomass and (iii) an inertia principle restricting the variation of populations of a given species according to its lifespan. This model reproduces in a robust manner observed patterns of variability and can be used to question the relevance of other modelling approaches of ecosystem dynamics with regard to determinism, constraints and stochasticity. Referring to a non-deterministic model without any functional relationships and environmental or anthropogenic forcing can help in avoiding misleading advice based on the belief that we can explain the causes of observed patterns, which may simply result from basic structural constraints within which the ecosystem functions.

20/194: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/factorsdeterminingtheforagingrangeofwanderingalbatrossesduringtheirbreedingseasonanindividualbasedmodelibmapproach> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Factors determining the foraging range of wandering albatrosses during their breeding season : an individual based model (IBM) approach
Understanding the ecology of albatrosses at sea and in particular their foraging range and the location of their feeding zones is a critical issue for a better understanding of their population dynamics in a changing environment. Since the onset of satellite tracking techniques, it is possible to describe albatross trajectories in both space and time and infer their foraging ranges. Despite these important improvements in our observational capabilities, it is still difficult to evaluate the influence of local environmental cues such as wind and food availability on bird's trajectories. In this talk, we present an Individual Based Model (IBM) of flight pattern and foraging behaviour of free-ranging albatrosses (Diomedea exulans) breeding on the Crozet Islands, in the southwest Indian Ocean. We use winds measured by the satellite Quick-Sat and fields of food simulated by a trophodynamic model as forcing fields. In the IBM model, individuals can choose between different strategies using wind direction and food concentration. The development of the IBM follows a “pattern oriented modelling approach” (POM) in order to determine which strategy better fits the observed trajectories. The IBM is then used to infer potential new foraging areas when wind conditions and prey distribution change. The consequences of such environmental changes on albatross distribution are important issues regarding the conservation of this endangered oceanic top predator.

21/195: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/scrstowardsclearandfirmiccatreportsonatlanticbluefintunastocksanopenlettertothebluefingroupandtothescrs> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : SCRS 2006: Towards clear and firm ICCAT reports on Atlantic bluefin tuna stocks? An open letter to the bluefin group and to the SCRS
This paper is based on the fact that the recent SCRS reports on bluefin tuna are not very clear
to show the gravity of the ICCAT problems in its statistics, research and assessment for this
species. The Atlantic bluefin population is now probably facing in the short or medium terms a
high risk of potentially irreversible over-fishing. However this severe risk is not clearly visible
in the recent SCRS analysis because of the difficulties to run a realistic stock assessment on
these stocks when most of the basic data are missing. This paper makes a recommendation that
SCRS should write its bluefin report using a non standard specific format using well selected
indicators and not its traditional VPA. This SCRS report should also show the serious
conservation risks presently faced by bluefin in the Atlantic. This paper also reaches conclusion
that a precautionary approach should be developed by SCRS in order to make firm
management recommendations that are need to conserve bluefin tuna.

22/196: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/theimpactofoverfishingandelninoontheconditionfactorandreproductivesuccessofperuvianhakemerlucciusgayiperuanus> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : The impact of overfishing and El Niño on the condition factor and reproductive success of Peruvian hake, Merluccius gayi peruanus
In this study we examine physiological responses of Peruvian hake (Merluccius gayi peruanus) to changes in their population structure and physical environment during the period 1971–2004. In particular, we assess the relative investment of energy in growth and/or reproduction of small (20–35 cm) and large (35–50 cm) hake. We calculated the (i) condition (Fulton's K), (ii) gonad and (iii) gut fullness indices for 42,761 female hakes sampled from commercial landings; these indices indicate fish somatic, reproductive and feeding condition, respectively. Using Generalized Additive Models we then examined potential relationships between these indices and sea surface temperature anomalies and date. Drastic energy exhaustion and a decrease in female hake fecundity were observed during El Niño events. The long-term trend showed a general increase in condition factor and a decrease in gonad index for large hake between 1971 and 2004. Small hake exhibited a different trend with an increase in reproductive activity, which was accompanied by an earlier maturation. We hypothesise that the observed low investment of energy in reproduction by large female hake might be related to the lack of large males, due to a sex-selective fishery and the impact of El Niño. We suggest that fishing diminished hake reproductive capacity, modified the sex ratio in favour of females and increased population vulnerability to environmental stress, in particular to the El Niño. The impact of multidecadal variability and predators like the squid, Dosidicus gigas, remain unresolved until longer time series become available.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

23/197: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/investigatingtrophiclevelvariabilityincelticseafishpredators> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Investigating trophic-level variability in Celtic Sea fish predators
The trophic level (TL) mean and variance, and the degree of omnivory for five Celtic Sea fish predators were estimated using a database of stomach content records characterized by a high level of taxonomic resolution. The predators occupied a high position in the food web, i.e. 4-75 for Atlantic cod Gadus morhua, 4-44 for  haddock Melanogrammus aeglefinus, 4-88 for European hake Merluccius merluccius, 5-00 for megrim Lepidorhombus whiffiagonis and 5-27 for whiting Merlangius merlangus. The level of taxonomic resolution of the prey did not greatly affect mean TL predator values; an effect on variance was evident, low resolution masking intra-population variability in TL. Generalized additive models (GAM) were used to explain the variability of predator TL caused by environmental variables (International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES, division and season) and predator characteristics (total length, LT). Significant year, location season and interaction effects were found for some species and with LT at the scale of ICES subdivision. The species-specific variability of TL could be due to spatio-temporal
variations in prey availability and in predator selectivity following ontogenetic changes. Omnivorous fish TL was less affected by spatio-temporal variations. In addition, results showed that the omnivory index and TL variability provide dissimilar information on predator feeding strategy. Combining information on TL variability and omnivory allowed between withinindividual and between-individual components contributing to trophic niche width to be separated and the type of generalization of fish predators to be identified. 
 2008 The Authors
©Journal compilation © 2008 The Fisheries Society of the British Isles

24/198: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/dispersalperrecruitanefficientmethodforassessingsustainabilityinmarinereservenetworks> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Dispersal per recruit: An efficient method for assessing sustainability in marine reserve networks
Marine reserves are an increasingly important tool for the management of marine ecosystems around the world. However, the effects of proposed marine reserve configurations on sustainability and yield of populations are typically not estimated because of the computational intensity of direct simulation and uncertainty in larval dispersal and density-dependent recruitment. Here we develop a method for efficiently assessing a marine reserve configuration for persistence and yield of a population with sedentary adults and dispersing larvae. The method extends the familiar sustainability criteria of individual replacement for single populations based on eggs-per-recruit (EPR) to spatially distributed populations with sedentary adults, a dispersing larval phase, and limited carrying capacity in the settlement-recruit relationship. We refer to this approach as dispersal-per-recruit (DPR). In some cases, a single DPR calculation, based on the assumption that post-settlement habitat is saturated (i.e., at maximum recruitment), is sufficient to determine population persistence, while in other cases further iterative calculations are required. These additional calculations reach an equilibrium more rapidly than a full simulation of age- or size-structured populations. From the DPR result, fishery yield can be computed from yield-per-recruit (YPR) at each point. We assess the utility of DPR calculations by applying them to single reserves, uniformly distributed systems of reserves, and randomly sized and spaced systems of reserves on a linear coast line. We find that for low levels of EPR in fished areas (e.g., 10% or less of the natural, unfished EPR when post-settlement habitats are saturated by 35% of natural settlement), a single DPR calculation is sufficient to determine persistence of the population. We also show that, in uniform systems of reserves with finite reserve size, maximal fisheries yield occurs when the density of reserves is such that all post-settlement habitat is nearly saturated with settlers. Finally, we demonstrate the application of this approach to a realistic proposed marine reserve configuration.

25/199: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fishlifehistoriesandmarineprotectedareasanoddcouple> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Fish life histories and marine protected areas: an odd couple?
ABSTRACT: Though marine protected areas (MPAs) have recently become a central element of many marine resource management plans, the potentially negative effects of MPAs for fisheries harvests remain the major impediment to their use. Understanding population responses to implementation of MPAs, and their consequences for harvests, is essential to assessing the value of MPAs as a management tool. Here I use a simple model to link what we know best about marine species, namely how fast they grow and how much they reproduce, with what we want to know, namely what will be the effects of spatial management efforts. Specifically, I show that whether maximum sustainable yield (MSY) or yield at fixed total recruitment increases with MPAs can be determined by an intuitive equation comparing the change in average individual biomass (i.e. harvestable material) with the change in individual lifetime reproduction due to increasing reserve area. Application of this model to different population structures demonstrates that initial MPA results indicating MSY would be unchanged with reserves for species with simple life-histories do not hold up for species for which biomass, reproduction or mortality vary with age. This explains many negative MPA results from age-structured models of optimally exploited species. On the other hand, the model predicts that species harvested later in life, and which begin reproduction after first harvest, may benefit from MPAs. Nevertheless, for these increases to occur, the age at first reproduction must in general be a considerable time after the age at first harvest.

26/200: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evaluationoftheperformanceandrobustnessofvpabasedstockassessmentandmsybasedmanagementstrategytoprocesserrortheatlanticbluefintunacasestudy> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Evaluation of the performance and robustness of VPA-based stock assessment and MSY-based management strategy to process error : The Atlantic bluefin tuna case study
An integrative simulation framework was built to evaluate the consequences of variability attributable to changes in carrying capacity or the stock's migration pattern of Atlantic bluefin tuna on the ICCAT stock assessment and management procedures. We also evaluated the performances of stock assessment methods with respect to their ability to provide good estimates of MSY, FMSY and BMSY and tested the robustness of the current ICCAT management strategy to uncertainty about the true dynamics and historical exploitation levels. The results clearly indicate that the VPA performances were seriously impaired if the long-term variations in catches are due to changes in migration/availability. There is further considerable confounding between the underlying dynamics and increasing effort that makes it difficult to draw any inference about the actual dynamics based on commercial catch data. Reference points based on F (e.g., F0.1) were less biased and more precise than those based on yield and/or SSB and were also more robust to uncertainty about the true dynamics than absolute values of F and SSB. However, F0.1 cannot indicate past and current levels of exploitation relative to FMSY when there is uncertainty about the dynamics. Therefore, while reference points such as F0.1 may be good proxies for FMSY, the MSY concept may be difficult to make operational. A size limit strategy generates greater yields than the more sophisticated F0.1, but lower SSB. However, the performances of both strategies were strongly dependent on the period over which they are implemented relative to the intrinsic cycle of the population. We finally stressed that the performances and robustness of management strategies also depend on concrete objectives, such as fleet composition, gear selectivity and economic constraints.

27/201: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/enrichmentconcentrationandretentionprocessesinrelationtoanchovyengraulisringenseggsandlarvaedistributionsinthenorthernhumboldtupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Enrichment, concentration and retention processes in relation to anchovy (Engraulis ringens) eggs and larvae distributions in the northern Humboldt upwelling ecosystem
A Lagrangian model is used to simulate and quantify in the northern Humboldt upwelling ecosystem the processes of enrichment, concentration and retention, identified by Bakun [Bakun, A., 1996. Patterns in the ocean. Ocean processes and marine population (sic). University of California Sea Grant, California, USA, in cooperation with Centro de Investigaciones Biologicas de Noroeste, (sic) California Sur, Mexico, 323 pp.] as being important for the survival and recruitment of early life stages of pelagic fish. The method relies on tracking the positions of particles within water velocity fields generated by a three-dimensional hydrodynamic model. Simple criteria for considering particles as participating to enrichment, concentration or retention are used to derive indices of the three processes. We analyse the spatial distribution of and seasonal variability in these indices. The results are discussed in relation to anchovy (Engraulis ringens) eggs and larvae distributions off Peru, and to a comparable study conducted in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem.

28/202: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/simulationandquantificationofenrichmentandretentionprocessesinthesouthernbenguelaupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Simulation and quantification of enrichment and retention processes in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem
Important environmental processes for the survival and recruitment of early life stages of pelagic fishes have been synthesized through Bakun's fundamental triad as enrichment, concentration and retention processes (A. Bakun, 1996, Patterns in the Ocean. Ocean Processes and Marine Population Dynamics. San Diego, CA, USA: University of California Sea Grant). This conceptual framework states that from favourable spawning habitats, eggs and larvae would be transported to and/or retained in places where food originating from enrichment areas would be concentrated. We propose a method for quantifying two of the triad processes, enrichment and retention, based on the Lagrangian tracking of particles transported within water velocity fields generated by a three-dimensional hydrodynamic model. We apply this method to the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem, constructing putative maps of enrichment and retention. We comment on these maps regarding main features of the circulation in the region, and investigate seasonal variability of the processes. We finally discuss the results in relation to available knowledge on the reproductive strategies of two pelagic clupeoid species abundant in the southern Benguela, anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax). Our approach is intended to be sufficiently generic so as to allow its application to other upwelling systems.

29/203: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/complexinterplaysamongpopulationdynamicsenvironmentalforcingandexploitationinfisheries> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Complex interplays among population dynamics, environmental forcing, and exploitation in fisheries
The patterns of variations in fisheries time series are known to result from a complex combination of species and fisheries dynamics all coupled with environmental forcing (including climate, trophic interactions, etc.). Disentangling the relative effects of these factors has been a major goal of fisheries science for both conceptual and management reasons. By examining the variability of 169 tuna and billfish time series of catch and catch per unit effort (CPUE) throughout the Atlantic as well as their linkage to the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), we find that the importance of these factors differed according to the spatial scale. At the scale of the entire Atlantic the patterns of variations are primarily spatially structured, whereas at a more regional scale the patterns of variations were primarily related to the fishing gear. Furthermore, the NAO appeared to also structure the patterns of variations of tuna time series, especially over the North Atlantic. We conclude that the patterns of variations in fisheries time series of tuna and billfish only poorly reflect the underlying dynamics of these fish populations; they appear to be shaped by several successive embedded processes, each interacting with each other. Our results emphasize the necessity for scientific data when investigating the population dynamics of large pelagic fishes, because CPUE fluctuations are not directly attributable to change in species' abundance.

30/204: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/phasetransitionsinmarinefishrecruitmentprocesses> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Phase transitions in marine fish recruitment processes
There has been a recent resurgence of interest in fisheries recruitment as a dynamic and complex process that is integrated over several life stages, with a variety of factors acting across scales to initiate, modulate, and constrain population abundance and variability. In this paper, we review the theory of recruitment phase transitions using a marine fisheries perspective. We propose that transitions in recruitment are dependent upon the balance of activating and constraining processes of recruitment control, and we highlight fundamental differences in recruitment transitions precipitated by climate events, those related to community alterations, and those manifested by fishery practices (though each is not necessarily mutually exclusive). We maintain that the emergent properties of fisheries populations post-phase transition are contingent upon their histories, their differing initial states, the degree of food web complexity, interaction strengths among interspecifics, and contrasting external forcing, any or all of which may be dissimilar between one regime and another.We suggest that it may be challenging to forecast recruitment phase transitions, though we encourage efforts to determine whether there are unifying relationships that govern recruitment dynamics.
© 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

31/205: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howdoesfishingaltermarinepopulationsandecosystemssensitivitytoclimate> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : How does fishing alter marine populations and ecosystems sensitivity to climate?
Evidence has accumulated that climate variability influences the state and functioning of marine ecosystems. At the same time increasing pressure from exploitation and other human activities has been shown to impact exploited and non-exploited species and potentially modify ecosystem structure. There has been a tendency among marine scientists to pose the question as a dichotomy, i.e., whether (1) "natural" climate variability or (2) fishery exploitation bears the primary responsibility for population declines in fish populations and the associated ecosystem changes. However, effects of both climate and exploitation are probably substantially involved in most cases. More importantly, climate and exploitation interact in their effects, such that climate may cause failure in a fishery management scheme but that fishery exploitation may also disrupt the ability of a resource population to withstand, or adjust to, climate changes. Here, we review how exploitation, by altering the structure of populations and ecosystems, can modify their ability to respond to climate. The demographic effects of fishing (removal of large-old individuals) can have substantial consequences on the capacity of populations to buffer climate variability through various pathways (direct demographic effects, effects on migration, parental effects). In a similar way, selection of population sub-units within meta-populations may also lead to a reduction in the capacity of populations to withstand climate variability and change. At the ecosystem level, reduced complexity by elimination of species, such as might occur by fishing, may be destabilizing and could lead to reduced resilience to perturbations. Differential exploitation of marine resources could also promote increased turnover rates in marine ecosystems, which would exacerbate the effects of environmental changes. Overall (and despite the specificities of local situations) reduction in marine diversity at the individual, population and ecosystem levels will likely lead to a reduction in the resilience and an increase in the response of populations and ecosystems to future climate variability and change. Future management schemes will have to consider the structure and functioning of populations and ecosystems in a wider sense in order to maximise the ability of marine fauna to adapt to future climates.

32/206: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofthegrowthparametersoftheskipjacktunakatsuwonuspelamisamongareasintheeasternatlanticanalysisfromtaggingdatawithinametaanalysisapproach> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Variability of the growth parameters of the skipjack tuna (/Katsuwonus pelamis/) among areas in the eastern Atlantic: Analysis from tagging data within a meta-analysis approach
In order to assess the latitudinal variability in growth of the eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), conventional tagging data collected by the International Commission of the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) since the 1960s are reanalyzed using a modified version of the von Bertalanffy-Fabens growth model. An analysis of the latitudinal patterns of recaptures showed that the lowest mixing rate between northern and southern regions was evidenced at 10◦ N Latitude. Since it is theoretically admitted that growth parameters L∞ and K are negatively correlated, we substituted L∞ into the growth equation model by a simple bioenergetic function of K fitted from existing studies on skipjack growth parameters. The likelihood for the meta-analysis of growth is combined with the likelihoods from the two regional tagging data with the aim of estimating simultaneously K in both areas and to transfer adequately uncertainties associated with the different data sets. From this study, it was showed that fish inhabiting waters south of 10◦ N latitude can be expected to grow generally larger but at slower rate than in the North (L∞ = 112.34 cm vs. 89.38 cm, and K = 0.14 vs. 0.38, respectively). Our results are consistent with the range of growth estimates obtained in the Atlantic Ocean and in different parts of the World's oceans. In contrast, the estimates of L∞ and K done in the Senegalese region in the 1980s within the framework of the Skipjack Year Program, and traditionally applied by ICCAT, are not supported by the present study. The findings concerning the phenotypic plasticity exhibited by growth of skipjack among latitudinal regions suggest potential differences in fish population productivity and consequently imply that non-conventional stock assessment methods such as catch-at size/growth transition matrix per region could be used to assess the responses of skipjack to exploitation.

33/207: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climatevariabilityfishandfisheries> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Climate variability, fish and fisheries
Fish population variability and fisheries activities are closely linked to weather and climate dynamics. While weather at sea directly affects fishing, environmental variability determines the distribution, migration, and abundance of fish. Fishery science grew up during the last century by integrating knowledge from oceanography, fish biology, marine ecology and fish population dynamics, largely focused on the great northern hemisphere fisheries. During this period, understanding and explaining interannual fish recruitment variability became a major focus for fisheries oceanographers. Yet, the close link between climate and fisheries is best illustrated by the effect of 'unexpected' events – i.e. non-seasonal, and sometimes catastrophic – on fish exploitation, such as those associated with the El Niño/ Southern Oscillation (ENSO). The observation that fish populations fluctuate at decadal time scales and show patterns of synchrony while being geographically separated drew attention to oceanographic processes driven by low frequency signals, as reflected by indices tracking large scale climate patterns such as the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) and the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO). This low frequency variability was first observed in catch fluctuations of small pelagic fish (anchovies, sardines), but similar effects soon emerged for larger fish such as salmons, various groundfish species, and some tuna species. Today, the availability of long time series of observations combined with major scientific advances in sampling and modelling the oceans ecosystems allows fisheries science to investigate processes generating variability in abundance, distribution and dynamics of fish species at daily, decadal and even centennial scales. These studies are central to the research programme of GLOBEC (Global Ocean Ecosystems Dynamics). In this review, we present examples of relationships between climate variability and fisheries at these different time-scales for species covering various marine ecosystems ranging from equatorial to sub-arctic regions. We describe some of the known mechanisms linking climate variability and exploited fish populations, as well as some leading hypotheses, and their implications for their management and for the modelling of their dynamics. We conclude with recommendations for collaborative work between climatologists,
oceanographers and fisheries scientists to resolve some of the outstanding problems in the development of sustainable fisheries.

34/208: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/indicatorsofsustainablefishingforsouthafricansardinesardinopssagaxandanchovyengraulisencrasicolus> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Indicators of sustainable fishing for South African sardine Sardinops sagax and anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus
Six indicators were investigated for South African sardine Sardinops sagax and anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus: mean length of catch, length-at-50% maturity, total mortality, exploitation rate, ratio of bycatch, and centre of gravity of commercial catches. Sardine length-at-50% maturity is  the most promising as a descriptive indicator because it is positively correlated with population  size for an extensive time period (1953–2005). The remaining indicators were limited by shorter data-series (1984–2005). However, mean length of catch, ratio of bycatch and exploitation rate  were found to be useful when considered in conjunction with other indicators. The centre of gravity of commercial sardine catches has shown a significant eastward shift from the West Coast, whereas that of anchovy has remained off that coast. Ratio of bycatch indicates that school composition is a reliable descriptive indicator of relative abundance in the two species. Fewer indicators for anchovy were useful, which is attributed to this species' flexible life-history pattern.

35/209: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/adaptativeabovegroundbiomassstanddensityandleafwaterpotentialtodroughtsandclearinginguierasenegalensisadominantshrubinsahelianfallowsniger> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Adaptative above-ground biomass, stand density and leaf water potential to droughts and clearing in Guiera senegalensis, a dominant shrub in Sahelian fallows (Niger)
Guiera senegalensis tolerates repeated cutting and pruning to which it is increasingly subjected at the onset of each cropping period, and one to three times during the annual cropping period (June-September). It responds by profusely branching at the shrub base. The topographic and geomorphic influences, and the effect of clearing on the relationships between shrub density, mean individual above-ground biomass and leaf water status were analysed for seven fallow sites. They were sampled 75 km east of Niamey in Niger. Surprisingly, shrub density and mean individual above-ground biomass were highest in the sites that had been recently in fallow and intensively cultivated prior to crop abandonment. Stand above-ground biomass was also positively related to mean predawn and daily minimum leaf water potentials. Consequently, in the studied G. senegalensis stands, above-ground biomass appeared to be controlled by water availability - rainfall. runoff, infiltration - rather than by cropping intensity. Anisohydric stomatal regulation, resulting in large safety margins from critical transpiration, was inferred from the diurnal amplitude of leaf water potential during the dry season. The plant physiological resistance to water stress combined with its population adjustment in density and growth contributes to the sustainable dominance of G. senegalensis.

36/210: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/interdecadalvariabilityofanchovetaabundanceandovercapacityofthefisheryinperu> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Interdecadal variability of anchoveta abundance and overcapacity of the fishery in Peru
Paleontological and historical stock abundance estimates indicate that pelagic fish populations inhabiting upwelling ecosystems undergo large interdecadal variations in abundance with amplitudes equal to, if not larger than, the interannual variability. The interdecadal variability is characterized by periods of high and low abundance, termed “pseudo-cycles”, because of their irregular periodicity. Fisheries targeting small pelagic fish suffer from overall overcapitalization, like many other fisheries, but also from an additional overcapitalization problem: a phase displacement between rapid fish population decreases and a slower disinvestment which follows. This lag produces economic hardship.

Here we document the fish:fishery relationship for the Peruvian anchoveta. Anchoveta pseudo-cycles of 20 to >100 years are observed, with the present stock abundance most likely located near upper part of the cycle. Fleet overcapacity expressed as the proportion of unused present capacity is estimated at 72% and processing overcapacity at 89%. A simple bio-economic model demonstrates the risks associated with the pseudo-periodicity in fish stock abundance in conjunction with fishery investment, open access, and overcapacity: a timing bomb for the fishing sector. The lag between disinvestment and decrease in fish abundance is quantified. A reduction of the fishing and processing capacity and measures to decrease the investment lag are recommended to limit the social, economical and political tensions that will result from the expected decrease in stock abundance. Finally, some management options to reduce these risks are discussed.

37/211: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/commontrendsmodelincatchperunitofeffortforthetropicaltunas> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Common trends model in catch per unit of effort for the tropical tunas
We explored the usefulness of Dynamic factor analysis (DFA) to detect common patterns in the sets of CPUEs for Atlantic yellowfin (Thunnus albacores) and for eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), respectively. For yellowfin, the most appropriate model, in terms of AIC, identified two common trends. The 10 yellowfin CPUE series could be divided into 3 groups based on factor loadings. The grouping corresponds in part to the geographic location of the fisheries (i.e., the western Atlantic area for group 1 and the northeastern tropical Atlantic region for group 2). The fact that the first group is constituted by CPUEs obtained from 3 different fishing gears (pole and line, purse seine and longline), operating at different depth levels, suggests that the regional trend reflects more a sub-population response to a local exploitation rate than to environmental conditions. In light of the present results, the CPUEs should be combined respectively into two regional indices before performing a unique combined index. For skipjack, results are less conclusive and further studies with explanatory factors are required to account for the fact that this species is seldom targeted by the tuna fisheries.

38/212: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multistabilityinanopenrecruitmentfoodwebmodel> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Multistability in an open recruitment food web model
A general model for three species food web found in marine systems is analyzed. Following single-species approaches to model the dynamics of marine organisms, we relaxed the assumption of closed population structure and examine the behavior of webs in which some or all the component populations have completely open dynamics, that is, there is no connection between the arrival of new individuals and local reproductive output. Recent reviews have shown that coexistence among species with self-recruitment with those with completely open-recruitment is the norm in marine habitats. As part of a study of tri-trophic food web models with combinations of self-versus open-recruitment, we describe here the stability properties of a food web with omnivory where the basal and the intermediate predator species have open populations and the top predator reproduces locally. This system can have a maximum of four critical points and at least one corresponding to the omnivore-free equilibrium point. In this case our system reduces to a two level food web without omnivory. This equilibrium point has stability properties that depend on the capacity of invasion of the omnivore species. If the omnivore succeeds in invading the community then a three level food web can be established but with more complex stability properties. When the equilibrium point without the top predator is unstable, then there may exist three more critical points, at least one of which is asymptotically stable. The exact number of critical points that may exist depends on the food web parameter space. We speculate that the restrictive conditions for three-species stability could explain the scarcity of this particular combination of dispersal abilities in natural communities.

39/213: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analyticalapproachestoinvestigatingseabirdenvironmentinteractionsareview> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Analytical approaches to investigating seabird–environment interactions: a review
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In the present paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour and their environment, in order to assess current trends, weaknesses and the future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where, in most cases, no behavioural information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. The vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas a few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird–environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, mesoscale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modelling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multiscale and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

40/214: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/schoolingbehaviourandenvironmentalforcinginrelationtoanchovetadistributionananalysisacrossmultiplespatialscales> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Schooling behaviour and environmental forcing in relation to anchoveta distribution: an analysis across multiple spatial scales
The Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) supports the highest worldwide fishery landings and varies in space and time over many scales. Here we present the first comprehensive sub-mesocale study of anchoveta distribution in relation to the environment. During November 2004, we conducted a behavioural ecology survey off central Peru and used a series of observational and sampling tools including SST and CO2 sensors, Niskin bottles, CTD probes, zooplankton sampling, stomach content analysis, echo-sounder, multibeam sonar, and bird observations. The sub-mesoscale survey areas were chosen from mesoscale acoustic surveys. A routine coast-wide (not, vert, similar2000 km) acoustic survey performed just after the sub-mesoscale surveys, provided information at an even larger population scale. The availability of nearly concurrent sub-mesoscale, mesoscale and coast-wide information on anchoveta distribution allowed for a unique multi-scale synthesis. At the sub-mesoscale (100s m to km) physical processes (internal waves and frontogenesis) concentrated plankton into patches and determined anchoveta spatial distribution. At the mesoscale (10s km) location relative to the zone of active upwelling (and age of the upwelled water) and the depth of the oxycline had strong impacts on the anchoveta. Finally, over 100s km the size of the productive area, as defined by the upwelled cold coastal waters, was the determining factor. We propose a conceptual view of the relative importance of social behaviour and environmental (biotic and abiotic) processes on the spatial distribution of anchoveta. Our ecological space has two y-axis; one based on self-organization (social behaviour), and the other based on the environmental processes. At scales from the individual (10s cm), to the nucleus (m), social behaviour (e.g. the need to school) drives spatial organization. At scales larger than the school, environmental forces are the main driver of fish distribution. The conceptual ecosystem models presented in this paper may provide the final links needed to develop accurate forecasts of the spatial distribution of anchoveta over multiple scales.

41/215: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/exploringtheeffectofmarineprotectedareasonthedynamicsoffishcommunitiesinthesouthernbenguelaanindividualbasedmodellingapproach> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Exploring the effect of Marine Protected Areas on the dynamics of fish communities in the southern Benguela: an individual-based modelling approach
Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) have been suggested as a tool that can achieve some of the goals of an Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries (EAF), e.g. prevention of overexploitation, biodiversity conservation, recovery of overexploited population, but the consequences of their establishment on the dynamics of protected components are often unclear. Spatial and multispecies models can be used to investigate the effects of their introduction. An individual-based, spatially explicit, size-structured, multispecies model (known as OSMOSE) is used to investigate the likely consequences of the introduction of three MPAs off the coast of South Africa, individually or in combination. The simultaneous introduction of the MPAs affected varying proportions of the distribution of the modelled species (5–17%) and 12% of the distribution of the whole community. In general, the introduction of the MPAs in the different scenarios resulted in a relative increase in the biomass of large predatory fish and a decrease in the biomass of small pelagic fish. The simulation demonstrates that consideration of trophic interactions is necessary when introducing MPAs, with indirect effects that may be detrimental to some (mainly smaller prey) species

42/216: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/densitydependentchangesinreproductiveparametersandconditionofsouthernbenguelasardinesardinopssagax> : SCORE = 1.253645
Doc : Density-dependent changes in reproductive parameters and condition of Southern Benguela sardine Sardinops sagax
The sardine Sardinops sagax population in the southern Benguela has undergone substantial fluctuations in size over the past 50 years, collapsing from an apparently large population in the 1950s to low levels in the mid-1960s, remaining low for the next two decades, and recovering from the late 1980s to a population size that is now similar to or larger than that which occurred during the 1950s. Marked changes in condition and reproductive parameters of sardine have also occurred during this period; condition and standardised gonad mass are higher and length-at-maturity is lower at low population size compared with high population size. The correspondence between the temporal patterns in condition, reproductive parameters and population size are strongly suggestive of density-dependence, and indicate a compensatory response arising from reduced intraspecific competition. This is likely to have resulted from greater per capita food intake, improved body condition and hence faster growth, thus enabling fish to achieve maturation at a presumably younger age and smaller size. Biological parameters did not vary in or out of phase with time-series of sea surface temperature in the southern Benguela, weakening the hypothesis of environmentally mediated changes in these parameters and hence providing support for the hypothesis of a direct density-dependent response by sardine.

43/217: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howtorecognizethefishinthetreesmethodologicalreflectionsforthefishpopulationassessmentinanartificialreservoir> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : How to recognize the fish in the trees ? Methodological reflections for the fish population assessment in an artificial reservoir
Estimate the impact of the fishery pressure on a fish population is an important current goal for the research programs. The present work takes place in such a frame, applied to lacustrine environment. The experiments were performed in two contrasted Malian lakes, from the ex-ploitation point of view. Facing the difficulty to get historical series, an estimate of the tempo-ral evolution is appraised through the comparison of these two lakes which are at different fishery levels. The acoustic prospecting ran into difficulties which are specific to some conti-nental waters areas, where various types of vegetation are present. In these cases, fish like usually remaining hidden into these areas. After some experience, it becomes possible to clas-sify visually a large part of the echotraces; nevertheless it remains a part of subjectivity and the processing is fastidious. Statistical methods have therefore been tested in order to find keys to automate the processing. But even in the best case, the use of these keys depends a lot on the fish behaviour, which is very different from one lake to the other, with schooling fish in the more exploited reservoir, and dispersed fish in the other.

44/218: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteontheperiodusedtorunthescrssequentialpopulationanalysisontropicaltuna> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Note on the period used to run the SCRS sequential population analysis on tropical tuna


45/219: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

46/220: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

47/221: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/amultiregionnonlinearagesizestructuredfishpopulationmodel> : SCORE = 1.4183372
Doc : A multi-region nonlinear age-size structured fish population model
The goal of this paper is to present a generic multi-region nonlinear age-size structured fish population model, and to assess its mathematical well-posedness. An initial-boundary-value problem is formulated. Existence and uniqueness of a positive weak solution is proved. Eventually, a comparison result is derived: the population of all regions decreases as the mortality rate increases in at least one region.

48/222: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thedynamicsofcollapseinworldfisheries> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : The dynamics of collapse in world fisheries
The fear of a rapid depletion of world fish stocks because of over-exploitation is increasing. Analysis of 1519 main series of the FAO world fisheries catch database over the last 50 years reveals that 366 fisheries' collapses occurred, that is nearly one fishery of four. The robustness of this result is tested by performing several complementary analyses using different conservative options. The number of collapses has been stable through time since 1950s indicating no improvement in the overall fisheries management. Three typical patterns emerge from the analysis of catch series during the period preceding the collapses: smooth collapse (33%), i.e. a long regular decline, erratic collapse (45%), i.e. a fall after several ups and downs, and a plateau-shaped collapse (21%), i.e. a sudden fall after a relatively long and stable persistence of high level of catches. Using a simple mathematical model, we relate the plateau-shaped collapses (which are, by nature, the most difficult to predict) to surreptitiously increasing exploitation and a depensatory mechanism at low population levels. Thus, a stable level of catch over several years is shown to conceal the risk of a sudden collapse. This jeopardizes the common assumption that considers the stability of catch as a goal for fisheries sustainability.

49/223: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingfishpopulationmovementsfromanindividualbasedrepresentationtoanadvectiondiffusionequation> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Modeling fish population movements: From an individual-based representation to an advection–diffusion equation
In this paper, we address the problem of modeling fish population movements. We first consider a description of movements at the level of individuals. An individual-based model is formulated as a biased random walk model in which the velocity of each fish has both a deterministic and a stochastic component. These components are function of a habitat suitability index, h, and its spatial gradient backward differenceh. We derive an advection–diffusion partial differential equation (PDE) which approximates this individual-based model (IBM). The approximation process enables us to obtain a mechanistic representation of the advection and diffusion coefficients which improves the heuristic approaches of former studies. Advection and diffusion are linked and exhibit antagonistic behaviors: strong advection goes with weak diffusion leading to a directed movement of fish. On the contrary weak advection goes with strong diffusion corresponding to a searching behavior. Simulations are conducted for both models which are compared by computing spatial statistics. It is shown that the PDE model is a good approximation to the IBM.

50/224: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multipleforagingstrategiesinamarineapexpredatorthegalapagossealionzalophuswollebaeki> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Multiple foraging strategies in a marine apex predator, the Galapagos sea lion Zalophus wollebaeki
Three fundamental foraging patterns in air-breathing marine vertebrates have been described: epipelagic, mesopelagic and benthic. Many sea lion species with access to extensive continental shelves have been described as benthic foragers. Coincidently these species are considered threatened. The Galapagos sea lion Zalophus wollebaeki, a top predator in the Galapagos Islands, is also considered threatened in this ecosystem. Sea lions at the central part of the archipelago have access to a vast continental shelf. For this reason we hypothesized that sea lions within this region would dive benthically. In addition, effective protection and conservation of this species requires knowledge of their foraging patterns and habitat utilization. We investigated the diving behaviour and habitat utilization of female Z. wollebaeki of a centrally located colony situated inside the highest density area of the population using time-depth recorders and satellite telemetry. Three distinct foraging patterns were found and described (shallow, deep and bottom divers), and individuals utilizing each pattern foraged in different locations. Epipelagic, mesopelagic and benthic dives were exhibited in the sea lions' diving behaviour, but these dive types were not exclusively associated with a foraging pattern. Between foraging trips females hauled out more frequently on other islands than they did on their breeding colony. The finding of 3 distinct foraging patterns that differ spatially has direct implications for management, particularly with regard to fisheries interactions. Marine protected areas can be implemented in the regions described as Z. wollebaeki foraging areas. Z. wollebaeki's wide foraging range coupled with their use of multiple haul-out sites should be considered in future studies when determining foraging trip lengths and habitat utilization since presence/absence from the colony does not reflect foraging trip length.

51/225: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/combiningfishingclosurewithminimumsizeofcapturetoimproveoctopusproductioninsenegalesewatersanevaluationusinganalyticalmodelling> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Combining fishing closure with minimum size of capture to improve Octopus production in Senegalese waters: an evaluation using analytical modelling,
The dynamics of the Octopus vulgaris (Cuvier, 1797) population in Senegalese waters is
modelled to evaluate the potential impact of combining temporal fishing closure and minimum size of
capture on the production of this stock. The study is based on an analytical approach (cohort analysis
and simulation of captures on a monthly basis) adapted to the biological characteristics of O. vulgaris,
a short lifespan species. Several combinations of the two policies (minimum size and fishing closure)
are tested to complement the results of previous studies that evaluated each of the two strategies
separately, and in addition, to account for the fact that a positive synergistic effect can be expected.
The model covers the exploitation period from 1996 to 1999. As in previous simulations (of separate
effects), the present results focus on the instability of the responses (positive or negative, significant
or not, depending on the situation that prevailed each year) of the octopus stock to such policies. As
a consequence it is difficult to identify the ideal combination of closure and size limits that would
ensure a substantial improvement in production every year. Nevertheless, a 350g or 500g minimum size
policy seems to be profitable when combined with a two-month fishing closure in July–August. The
final discussion focuses on the fact that, in addition to its regional range, the present study presents
also a broader interest because the methodology proposed here aims to be applicable to other
cephalopods and short lived species fisheries.

52/226: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anadvectiondiffusionreactionsizestructuredfishpopulationdynamicsmodelcombinedwithastatisticalparameterestimationprocedureapplicationtotheindianoceanskipjacktunafishery> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : An advection-diffusion-reaction size-structured fish population dynamics model combined with a statistical parameter estimation procedure: Application to the Indian Ocean skipjack tuna fishery
We develop an advection-di®usion size-structured ¯sh population
dynamics model and apply it to simulate the skipjack tuna population in the
Indian Ocean. The model is fully spatialized, and movements are parame-
terized with oceanographical and biological data; thus it naturally reacts to
environment changes. We ¯rst formulate an initial-boundary value problem
and prove existence of a unique positive solution. We then discuss the numer-
ical scheme chosen for the integration of the simulation model. In a second
step we address the parameter estimation problem for such a model. With
the help of automatic di®erentiation, we derive the adjoint code which is used
to compute the exact gradient of a Bayesian cost function measuring the dis-
tance between the outputs of the model and catch and length frequency data.
A sensitivity analysis shows that not all parameters can be estimated from the
data. Finally twin experiments in which pertubated parameters are recovered
from simulated data are successfully conducted.



145) Recherche du mot : Tremoctopus violaceus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tremoctopus_violaceus)


146) Recherche du mot : Physiculus sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/physiculus_sp)


147) Recherche du mot : law (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/law)
1/227: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/neatsanetworkeconomicsapproachtotrophicsystems> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Neats : a Network Economics Approach to Trophic Systems
The main principle of the economic approach to a trophic system we propose here lies in assuming that there is a transfer of food along a path between a prey and a predator if, for the predator, the benefits are greater than costs of predation on this path. Conversely, if the costs exceed the benefits, there are no flows. This trade-off, considered all along the food chains of an ecosystem, together with ecological processes (assimilation, somatic maintenance) results in a model coupling mass balance equations (biological constraints) and complementarity principles (Walras' law). Here is the core of the Network Economics Approach to Trophic Systems (NEATS). We illustrate with simple examples of ecosystems how these principles result in algebraic equations which can be analyzed mathematically and solved numerically.We show, in amore sophisticated example of an input/output trophic network, that they result in “affine variational inequalities”, whose solutions can be estimated. We make explicit how the approach can be applied to address ecological questions, concerning differences of productivity, causes of biological diversity, or the nature of controls in marine ecosystems.
© 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.



148) Recherche du mot : Sphyrna lewini (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyrna_lewini)


149) Recherche du mot : Albacore Once (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/albacore_Once)


150) Recherche du mot : Canaria current (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/canaria_ecosystem)


151) Recherche du mot : cétacés (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/cetacean)


152) Recherche du mot : Bermuda sea chub (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/kyphosis_sectatrix)


153) Recherche du mot : Seychelles (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/Seychelles)
1/228: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/roleofpelagiccrustaceansinthedietofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxintheseychelleswaters> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) in the Seychelles waters
The role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox was investigated from stomach content analysis of fish collected in the waters surrounding the Seychelles Archipelago in the western Indian Ocean. Crustaceans accounted for 88.4% by prey number and 73.7% by reconstituted mass during the South-West monsoon season. During the North-East monsoon season, crustaceans remained the main prey group and accounted for 63.7% by prey number and 46% by reconstituted mass. There was a clear seasonal pattern with the portunid crab Charybdis smithii predominating during the South-West monsoon season and the pelagic stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris during the North-East monsoon season. This pattern likely reflects variations in prey availability linked to current movements around the Seychelles Archipelago. Most of the prey consisted of slow-swimming and small individuals, which occur in dense swarms during the pelagic phase of their life history. The dietary trends of lancetfish are consistent with opportunistic feeding on the most abundant prey. They exploit short food chains based on carnivorous crustaceans, and play an important role in the pelagic trophic functioning of the western Indian Ocean.

2/229: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysisofdataobtainedfromobserverprogrammesconductedinandintheindianoceanonboardfrenchpurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Analysis of data obtained from observer programmes conducted in 2005 and 2006 in the indian ocean on board french purse seiners
This paper is a preliminary analysis of the data obtained under the National Database Plan (PNDB).
Between October 2005 and July 2006, three observers from the Development and Research Institute
(IRD) have been on board four French tuna purse seiners. They had to estimate by-catch and discard
and collect detailed information on the fishing activities and the use of FADs.
Areas prospected during these 134 days were NW Seychelles, SE Seychelles, E. Somalia and
Maldives-Chagos; 194 sets (116 positives and 86 negative) have been observed, with a majority
(84%) on free schools (162 sets, 51% positive) and quite few (16%) on associated schools (32 sets,
81% positives). During the day, the main activities of the boat were searching and fishing,
respectively 31% and 13% of total activity. Main reasons for null sets over free school as well as
FADs was that fish sinks or move too fast.
Discards were practically nulls and concerned mainly yellowfin tuna. About by-catch, it represents
less than 1% of total catch (in weight), mainly triggerfish, rainbow runner and wahoo. Selacians
(except shark whales) represented nearly 12% of the total by-catch (in weight) with mainly silky shark
over FADs and skate over free school. As regards billfishes, they represent 5% of total by-catch (in
weight) with mainly Indo-Pacific Sailfish over free school and black marlin over FADs.

3/230: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/cireneairseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Cirene: Air—Sea Interactions in the Seychelles—Chagos Thermocline Ridge Region
The Vasco—Cirene program ex-plores how strong air—sea inter-actions promoted by the shallow thermocline and high sea surface temperature in the Seychelles—Chagos thermocline ridge results in marked variability at synoptic, intraseasonal, and interannual time scales. The Cirene oceano-graphic cruise collected oceanic, atmospheric, and air—sea flux observations in this region in Jan-uary—February 2007. The contem-poraneous Vasco field experiment complemented these measure-ments with balloon deployments from the Seychelles. Cirene also contributed to the development of the Indian Ocean observing system via deployment of a moor-ing and 12 Argo profilers.Unusual conditions prevailed in the Indian Ocean during Janu-ary and February 2007, following the Indian Ocean dipole climate anomaly of late 2006. Cirene measurements show that the Seychelles—Chagos thermocline ridge had higher-than-usual heat content with subsurface anomalies up to 7°C. The ocean surface was warmer and fresher than average, and unusual eastward currents prevailed down to 800 m. These anomalous conditions had a major impact on tuna fishing in early 2007. Our dataset also sampled the genesis and maturation of Tropical Cyclone Dora, including high surface temperatures and a strong diurnal cycle before the cyclone, followed by a 1.5°C cool-ing over 10 days. Balloonborne instruments sampled the surface and boundary layer dynamics of Dora. We observed small-scale structures like dry-air layers in the atmosphere and diurnal warm layers in the near-surface ocean. The Cirene data will quantify the impact of these finescale features on the upper-ocean heat budget and atmospheric deep convection.

4/231: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialdistributionofcubicepspauciradiatusperciformesnomeidaeinthetropicalindianoceananditsimportanceinthedietoflargepelagicfishes> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Spatial distribution of Cubiceps pauciradiatus (Perciformes:Nomeidae) in the tropical Indian Ocean and its importance in the diet of large pelagic fishes
The bigeye cigarfish (Cubiceps pauciradiatus) is a small pelagic nomeid of the tropical world ocean, often recovered in the stomach contents of top predators such as tunas, billfishes and marine mammals. In the Indian Ocean, a few studies have investigated the biology and the ecology of this species that is one of the most abundant fish of the intermediate trophic levels. In this paper, we investigated the spatial distribution of C. pauciradiatus in the Indian Ocean using pelagic trawl catches carried out between 20°N and 45°S, and the importance of bigeye cigarfish in the diet of 9 piscivorous fishes sampled by different fishing gears in the western part of the Indian Ocean. The highest densities were observed along the eastern coast of Africa and in the Arabian Sea (87 000 individuals per square nautical mile) during the South-West Monsoon and in the eastern part of the Seychelles archipelago (62 200 ind. square nmi) during the North-East Monsoon. Small sized bigeye cigarfish (20–80 mm SL) was a regular and abundant prey (20 to 200 ind. per stomach) for schooling predators exploited by purse seine fishery such as large yellowfin and bigeye tunas chasing prey near the sea surface. Large sized bigeye cigarfish (61–150 mm SL) occurred in small numbers (3 to 20 ind. per stomach) in the stomach contents of swordfish and of large yellowfin and bigeye tunas caught by longline sets at great depths. Large concentrations of bigeye cigarfish occurred in zones of high productivity, and that species constituted seasonally a strong link in the transfer of energy from low to high trophic levels in this part of the Indian Ocean.

5/232: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hookingresponsesoftargetedandnontargetedspeciesobservedonpelagiclonglineusingcommonsaurysquidandlargebonitosbaitspreliminaryresultsfromfishingexperimentscarriedoutintheseychelleswaters> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Hooking responses of targeted and non targeted species observed on pelagic longline using common (saury, squid) and large (bonitos) baits : Preliminary results from fishing experiments carried out in the Seychelles waters.


6/233: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deepdivingbehaviorobservedinyellowfintunathunnusalbacares> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Deep diving behavior observed in yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares)
Yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) are known to preferentially occupy the surface mixed layer above the thermocline and it has been suggested that they are physiologically restricted to water temperatures no more than 8 °C colder than surface waters. However, we here report for dive data acquired from a large yellowfin tuna which demonstrate for the first time that this species is indeed capable of making prolonged dives into deep cold waters. A yellowfin tuna (134 cm fork length) caught near an anchored fish aggregating device (FAD) in the Seychelles (Western Indian Ocean) was equipped with an internally implanted archival tag and released. The fish was recaptured 98 days later. As predicted for this species, this fish spent 85% of its time shallower than 75 m (maximum thermocline depth experienced by the fish) but, over the course of the track, it performed three deep dives to 578 m, 982 m and 1160 m. Minimum ambient water temperatures recorded at these depths were 8.6 °C, 7.4 °C and 5.8 °C respectively and varied by up to 23.3 °C from surface temperatures. The fish spent 8.3% of its time in waters more than 8 °C colder than the surface layer and daily experienced a wide range of sea temperatures (mode at 15-16 °C) and of temperatures of the gut cavity (mode at 6 °C). The reason for these dives can not be known. These depths and temperatures significantly exceed those reported in the literature so far and clearly demonstrate that this species has the physiological and behavioral ability to penetrate deep cold sections of the ocean.

7/234: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparativeforagingecologyandecologicalnicheofasuperabundanttropicalseabirdthesootyternsternafuscatainthesouthwestindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Comparative foraging ecology and ecological niche of a superabundant tropical seabird: the sooty tern Sterna fuscata in the southwest Indian Ocean
Over 6-million pairs of sooty terns Sterna fuscata breed once a year in the southwest Indian Ocean, mostly on three islands of the Mozambique Channel (Europa, Juan de Nova and Glorieuses) and in the Seychelles region. Seasonal reproduction in either winter or summer is the dominant strategy in the area, but nonseasonal reproduction also occurred in some places like at Glorieuses Archipelago. The feeding ecology of the sooty tern was investigated during the breeding seasons to determine whether terns showed signiWcant diVerences in their trophic ecology between locations. Regurgitations were analyzed to describe the diet of individuals when breeding, and stable isotopes and mercury concentrations were used to temporally integrate over the medium-term of the trophic ecology of both adults and chicks. Overall, the diet was composed of fish, flying squid and fish larvae in different proportions. At Europa and Aride in the Seychelles, where winter reproduction occurs, large epipelagic prey like flying fish or squid dominated the diet. At Juan de Nova, sooty terns reproduce in summer and rely mostly on fish larvae. At Glorieuses (non-seasonal breeding), the diet was intermediate with fish larvae and flying squid being important prey items. The stable-carbon and nitrogen isotope values in blood confirm the differences observed in dietary analysis, and demonstrate different feeding strategies between colonies...δ13 C values of feathers showed spatial segregation between birds from the Mozambique Channel and the Seychelles region. Terns from the Seychelles had also higher δ15 N values. Feather δ13 C values also suggest a significant shift from summer to wintering habitat for birds from Juan de Nova. This study emphasizes the high phenotypic plasticity of the species, which may explain its numerical dominance in all tropical waters of the World's Ocean.

8/235: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/seychellesrecordsfirstribbonfishinitswaters> : SCORE = 2.1275058
Doc : Seychelles records first ribbonfish in its waters
A large strange fish known as the ribbonfish has been recorded for the first time in Seychelles' waters, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) has announced.

9/236: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/regionalfeedingpatternsofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Regional feeding patterns of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) of the western Indian Ocean
The food composition of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox Lowe, 1833) was studied in two areas belonging to different biogeographic provinces of the western Indian Ocean: Indian Monsoon Gyres Province (MONS) and Indian South Subtropical Gyre Province (ISSG). A total of 158 lancetfish were sampled during two research longline cruises in 1986-1987: 50 within the MONS, from the western equatorial area (between the EEZs of Kenya and Seychelles) and 108 within the ISSG, from the northern part of the EEZ of Mauritius (Saya-de-Malha Bank – Agalega Islands area). In the equatorial area, 135 prey items (of 18 families or higher taxa) were found in the lancetfish stomachs. In the waters of Mauritius, 476 prey items of 53 taxa were recorded. Regional variability in the feeding habits reflects province-specific differences in the prey abundance and the structure of pelagic communities of the intermediate trophic levels. Large predatory crustaceans dominate in the waters of MONS, while they are absent in the poor waters of ISSG. Foraging success of the lancetfish on non-evasive prey was 3.2 times higher in the MONS than in the ISSG. In overall, swimming crab, Hyperiidea, conspecifics, barracudina, hatchetfish, hammerjaw, and Polychaeta were the predominant prey of the lancetfish. Great differences in the food composition of ‘small' (FL

10/237: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/vascocirenemeasurementssupplementdecireneairseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 1.2410451
Doc : 'Vasco–Cirene measurements', supplément de "Cirene: Air–Sea Interactions in the Seychelles–Chagos Thermocline Ridge Region"
T
he Vasco–Cirene field experiment, in January–
February 2007, targeted the Seychelles–Chagos
thermocline ridge (SCTR) region, with the main purpose of investigating Madden–Julian Oscillation (MJO)-related SST events. The Validation of the Aeroclipper System under Convective Occurrences (Vasco) experiment (Duvel et al. 2009) and Cirene cruise were designed to provide complementary views of air–sea interaction in the SCTR region. While meteorological balloons were deployed from the Seychelles as a part of Vasco, the Research Vessel (R/V) Suroît was cruising the SCTR region as a part of Cirene.[...]

11/238: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleexploitationofamajortunaconcentrationintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Mesoscale exploitation of a major tuna concentration in the Indian Ocean
The paper analyzes the daily catch, fishing effort and fish size data of the purse seine fleet fishing in the
western Indian Ocean in February 2005, when a major concentration of tuna occurred and was heavily exploited by
this surface fishery. This tuna concentration event occurred over a period of just 12 days, in an area of about 3500
square nautical miles located to the west of the Seychelles. This small stratum produced a total catch of 22 000 t,
corresponding to 6.5% of the total fishing mortality of all adult yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) in the entire Indian
Ocean in 2005. Sets were made mainly on free schools and the catch mainly composed of large yellowfin tuna. The
average CPUE and the average catch per set were very large, 65 t and 85 t per fishing day, respectively. This “event” took
place in a precise area where a high concentration of chlorophyll had been localized 18 days before. The subsequent
concentration of tuna schools probably arose due to the high densities of their prey feeding on this large phytoplankton
biomass. This phytoplankton bloom was observed at the edge of an anticyclonic eddy, but its origin and its high density
cannot be fully explained by available environmental data. The adult yellowfin were probably at a reproductive stage
and actively feeding on the local food chain generated by the phytoplankton bloom. Such an event is extreme, but
typical of tuna purse seine fisheries where fleets often search for such tuna patches. These events play an important role
in tuna fisheries due to the increase in fishing effort and fishing efficiency of purses seiners, both of which increase their
impact on the resource. The fine scale study of such events and their improved integration into tuna stock assessments
is recommended.

12/239: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/airseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Air-sea interactions in the Seychelles-Chagos thermocline ridge region
A field experiment in the southwestern Indian Ocean provides new insights into ocean–atmosphere interactions in a key climatic region.

13/240: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwpeb> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : IOTC WPEB - 2008/016
Data collected through 20 observer fishing trips were used to quantify
the number of silky sharks taken as bycatch by the French tuna
purse seine fishery of the Western Indian Ocean. 1,385 immature
silky sharks of which 85% was discarded at sea and 15% retained
aboard, were observed as bycatch during 685 fishing sets observed
from October 2005 to April 2008. Zero-inflated regression models
fitted with Bayesian methods were used to explain silky shark
bycatch as a function of fishing mode (free vs. fishing aggregating
device-associated (FAD) schools), area, and season. Model results
showed that silky sharks occurred in 24% of the fishing sets with an
expected number of sharks per set estimated to be 2.02 ± 0.05. The
3 covariates were found to significantly explain both the presence
and number of silky sharks caught by the French purse seiners. FAD
was shown to have a strong positive effect on the number of silky
sharks caught, an expected value of 4.3 sharks being taken in FADassociated
schools versus 0.3 shark in free schools. There were
significant differences in silky shark bycatch between seasons and
areas with higher bycatch than average in July-September and in the
South-East Seychelles area while fewer sharks were expected to be
caught in the North Somali area. Results are discussed within the
context of the ecosystem approach to fisheries for the analysis of
ecosystem effects of fishing.

14/241: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingfishcommunitiesassociatedwithdriftingfishaggregatingdevicesfadsinthewesternindianoceanusingunderwatervisualsurveys> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Characterizing fish communities associated with drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean using underwater visual surveys
We adapted a visual census method, mainly used in demersal and reef fish studies, to characterize fish communities associated to drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean. Drifting FAD associated fishes from both equatorial (Seychelles) and tropical waters (Reunion Island) were examined by divers. A total of 32 species (belonging to 16 families) were observed associated with drifting FADs in equatorial waters, and 24 species (14 families) were found around FADs in tropical waters. Twenty species were found in both regions. The highest number of species observed at a single FAD was 18 (12 ± 2, mean ± SD) in equatorial and 13 (10 ± 3) in tropical waters, not counting circumnatant species loosely associated with the FAD. Some species like Kyphosus vaigiensis, Canthidermis maculata, Elagatis bipinnulata, Acanthocybium solandri and Coryphaena hippurus were observed on all or most of the surveys. In this study, the contribution in biomass of the 18 common species associated with drifting FADs (but excluding circumnatant species), represents more than 98% of the biomass. The overall biomass values of closely associated species remains well below tuna biomass estimates for circumnatant tuna schools at FADs, estimated as high as 200 tons. The species that most significantly contribute to the by-catch in tuna purse-seines logically match those that showing the highest biomass values in our surveys (Carcharhinus spp., Elagatis bipinnulata, Coryphaena hippurus, Canthidermis maculata, and Acanthocybium solandri). One of the most abundant and ubiquitous species in our study was the spotted oceanic triggerfish Canthidermis maculata that sometimes formed massive schools of many thousands individuals around the drifting FADs. Future research is needed to explore the role of such non tuna species in the attraction and aggregation processes of tuna around drifting FADs.

15/242: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/studylooksatwaylonglinescantargettuna> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Study looks at way longlines can target tuna
Researchers have concluded the first phase of a study investigating ways that Seychelles' longliners can better target tuna.

16/243: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

17/244: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

18/245: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.



154) Recherche du mot : Argonaute papier (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/argonauta_argo)


155) Recherche du mot : Scomberomorus unclassified (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_sp)


156) Recherche du mot : Pez hacha (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/argyropelecus_gigas)


157) Recherche du mot : geologic element (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/geologic_element)


158) Recherche du mot : observatoire (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/observatory)
1/246: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/unobservatoirecommeoutildecooperation> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Un observatoire comme outil de coopération
L'Observatoire thonier hébergé par le Centre
de recherche halieutique méditerranéenne et tropicale
de Sète vient de décrocher sa certification ISO 9001
pour trois ans. Une consécration et un gage d'avenir
pour cet outil de suivi des pêches thonières tropicales.



159) Recherche du mot : Foie (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/liver)


160) Recherche du mot : Thon aux gros yeux (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_obesus)


161) Recherche du mot : squille... (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lysiosquilla_tredecimendata)


162) Recherche du mot : Coffeebean scaled squid (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pholidoteuthis_boschmai)


163) Recherche du mot : tapis de tri (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/tapis_tri)


164) Recherche du mot : Greasy grouper (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/epinephelus_tauvina)


165) Recherche du mot : Bignose shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_altimus)


166) Recherche du mot : mirounga leonina (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mirounga_leonina)
1/247: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/southernoceanfrontalstructureandseaiceformationratesrevealedbyelephantseals> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Southern Ocean frontal structure and sea-ice formation rates revealed by elephant seals
Polar regions are particularly sensitive to climate change, with the potential for significant feedbacks between ocean circulation, sea ice, and the ocean carbon cycle. However, the difficulty in obtaining in situ data means that our ability to detect and interpret change is very limited, especially in the Southern Ocean, where the ocean beneath the sea ice remains almost entirely unobserved and the rate of sea-ice formation is poorly known. Here, we show that southern elephant seals (Mirounga leonina) equipped with oceanographic sensors can measure ocean structure and water mass changes in regions and seasons rarely observed with traditional oceanographic platforms. In particular, seals provided a 30-fold increase in hydrographic profiles from the sea-ice zone, allowing the major fronts to be mapped south of 60°S and sea-ice formation rates to be inferred from changes in upper ocean salinity. Sea-ice production rates peaked in early winter (April–May) during the rapid northward expansion of the pack ice and declined by a factor of 2 to 3 between May and August, in agreement with a three-dimensional coupled ocean–sea-ice model. By measuring the high-latitude ocean during winter, elephant seals fill a “blind spot” in our sampling coverage, enabling the establishment of a truly global ocean-observing system.



167) Recherche du mot : Ancistrocheirus lesueuri (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ancistrocheirus_lesueuri)


168) Recherche du mot : Bigeye thresher (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alopias_superciliosus)


169) Recherche du mot : Scads nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/decapterus_sp)


170) Recherche du mot : Manchot de Humboldt (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/spheniscus_humboldti)


171) Recherche du mot : SINGAPOUR (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_SGP_SIN)


172) Recherche du mot : seuil (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/sill)


173) Recherche du mot : Moonfish, opah, mambo (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lampris_spp)


174) Recherche du mot : sensor (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/sensor)
1/248: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparisonoflightandsstbasedgeolocationwithsatellitetelemetryinfreerangingalbatrosses> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Comparison of light- and SST-based geolocation with satellite telemetry in free-ranging albatrosses
Light-based archival tags are increasingly being used on free-ranging marine vertebrates to study their movements using geolocation estimates. These methods use algorithms that incorporate threshold light techniques to determine longitude and latitude. More recently, researchers have begun using sea surface temperature (SST) to determine latitude in temperate regions. The accuracy and application of these algorithms have not been validated on free-ranging birds. Errors in both geolocation methods were quantified by double-tagging Laysan (Phoebastria immutabilis Rothschild) and black-footed (P. nigripes Audubon) albatrosses with both leg-mounted archival tags that measured SST and ambient light, and satellite transmitters. Laysan albatrosses were captured and released from breeding colonies on Tern Island, northwestern Hawaiian Islands (23°52′N, 166°17′W) and Guadalupe Island, Mexico (28°31′N, 118°10′W) and black-footed albatrosses from Tern Island. Studies were carried out between December 2002 and March 2003. For all birds combined, the mean ± SD great circle (GC) distance between light-based locations and satellite-derived locations was 400±298 km (n=131). Errors in geolocation positions were reduced to 202±171 km (n=154) when light-based longitude and SST-based latitude (i.e. SST/light) were used to establish locations. The SST/light method produced comparable results for two Laysan albatross populations that traveled within distinctly different oceanic regions (open ocean vs more coastal) whereas light-based methods produced greater errors in the coastal population. Archival tags deployed on black-footed albatrosses returned a significantly higher proportion of lower-quality locations, which was attributed to interference of the light sensor on the tag. Overall, the results demonstrate that combining measures of light-based longitude and SST-based latitude significantly reduces the error in location estimates for albatrosses and can provide valid latitude estimates during the equinoxes, when light-based latitude measurements are indeterminate.

2/249: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trendsinprimaryproductionseasurfacetemperatureandwindinupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Trends in primary production, sea surface temperature and wind in upwelling systems (1998-2007)
We take advantage of the longest high quality single-sensor global data set of ocean color available today to explore recent trends in the primary productivity of the main eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUEs): California, Canary, Humboldt and Benguela. The chlorophyll-a concentration is used as a proxy for primary production. SST data from AVHRR and wind speed data from QuikSCAT are used in conjunction with this data set to analyse forcing mechanisms explaining the chlorophyll biomass.
Whereas the worldwide primary-production biomass shows on average decreasing trends, as already observed in the stratified part of the worldwide ocean, the productivity of most EBUEs increases during the study period. These contrasting trends are both significant, at least for the mid latitude range of 50°S-50°N, where the data coverage is sufficient for accurate estimation.
Probably due to the large scale atmospheric forcing, trends in sea surface temperature (SST) show non-significant relationships with the trends in biomass within upwelling systems, suggesting that SST anomalies cannot be used as an indicator of change in upwelling intensity in a continuous warming context. On the other hand, upwelling favourable equatorward winds show a significant correlation with the observed trends in biomass, suggesting that the trends in the trade winds are probably linked to an increase in the intensity of the Hadley cell circulation observed during the last several decades.



175) Recherche du mot : glenan (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/glenan)


176) Recherche du mot : élément abiotique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/abiotic_element)


177) Recherche du mot : Requin-marteau commun (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyrna_zygaena)


178) Recherche du mot : Epinephelus summana (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/epinephelus_summana)


179) Recherche du mot : TRANSBORDEMENT EN MER (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_TB)


180) Recherche du mot : Albatros pico amarillo y negro (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thalassarche_chlororhynchos)


181) Recherche du mot : Otarie à fourrure (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/arctocephalus_Australis)


182) Recherche du mot : Oceanographie (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/oceanography)


183) Recherche du mot : Istiophorus albicans (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/istiophorus_albicans)
1/250: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.



184) Recherche du mot : dolphin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/dolphin)


185) Recherche du mot : drennec (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/drennec)


186) Recherche du mot : hill (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/hill)


187) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus longimanus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_longimanus)


188) Recherche du mot : Rascasses, etc. nca (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scorpaenidae)


189) Recherche du mot : canyon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/canyon)


190) Recherche du mot : pelagic stingray (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pteroplatytrygon_violacea)


191) Recherche du mot : Diomedea amsterdamensis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diomedea_amsterdamensis)


192) Recherche du mot : Chalut (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/trawlnet)
1/251: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/chantiergolfedegascogne> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Chantier Golfe de gascogne
L'action des engins de pêche sur le fond a déjà été décrite, filmée. La comparaison de prélèvements dans le secteur de la Grande Vasière réalisés à 30 ans d'intervalle met en évidence une évolution de la faune et de la nature du fond (Le Loch, 2004). Mais peu de chiffres argumentés permettent de quantifier l'impact des engins de pêche sur le fond.
Cette étude pluridisciplinaire se base sur :
- une connaissance de la structure sédimentaire du plateau de la Grande Vasière,
- une analyse des phénomènes en jeu dans le cycle dépôt-remobilisation de la colonne sédimentaire (apports fluviaux, front thermo-halin, houle, courant, organismes fouisseurs,….),
- une typologie des engins de pêche utilisés sur le plateau et un descriptif (largeur balayée, enfoncement, …) de l'action de chacun des éléments (bourrelet, chaîne, bras, panneau)
- une sélection de l'effort de pêche 2003 pour 6 classes de longueur de navire, 9 carrés statistiques, 2 types d'engin (chalut simple ou jumeau) et 2 types de prises (langoustines ou non : différenciation des efforts focalisés sur la Grande Vasière de ceux également répartis dans les carrés statistiques ).
Les résultats portent sur la surface balayée et la quantité de sédiments fins remis en suspension. La paramétrisation des formules permet de tester l'influence de tels ou tels éléments dans le bilan global.
Ainsi chaque mètre carré de la Grande Vasière est balayé au minimum 6 fois par an. La remobilisation des sédiments fins par les engins de pêche est comparable à la remobilisation par les tempêtes.

2/252: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/stablecarbonandnitrogenisotopeanalysisofthenephropsnorvegicusmerlucciusmerlucciusfishinggroundsinthebayofbiscaynortheastatlantic> : SCORE = 0.30707902
Doc : Stable carbon and nitrogen isotope analysis of the Nephrops norvegicus/Merluccius merluccius fishing grounds in the Bay of Biscay (Northeast Atlantic)
The trophic structure of the benthic ecosystem of the Grande Vasière (Great Mud Bank), a heavily trawled area in the Bay of Biscay, is largely unknown. To better understand the biotic interactions between exploited species (mainly Norway lobster, Nephrops norvegicus, and European hake, Merluccius merluccius) and their competitors and prey, we applied a dual stable carbon (13C/12C) and nitrogen (15N/14N) isotope analysis to determine trophic levels and differences in the potential food sources of species in the benthic and demersal communities. Five main groups of species constitute the basis of the trophic structure. They are distributed in three main trophic levels: primary consumers; secondary consumers including N. norvegicus and juvenile M. merluccius; and top predators including adult M. merluccius (δ15N = 14.5). The large differences in δ13C values within the primary consumers attest to two different food components: a pelagic component composed of fresh sedimenting particulate organic matter, which mainly supplies supra- and epi-benthic suspension feeders, and zooplankton, and a benthic component, which mainly supplies deposit feeders. For the predators, the target species, and their competitors, diet changes during the life-span are reflected by differences in isotope values for the size classes.

Résumé : La structure trophique de l'écosystème benthique de la Grande Vasière, une importante zone de pêche au chalut de fond du Golfe de Gascogne, demeure encore méconnue. Afin de mieux comprendre les interactions biotiques entre les espèces exploitées (principalement la langoustine, Nephrops norvegicus, et le merlu, Merluccius merluccius) et leurs concurrents et proies, une analyse des isotopes sables du carbone (13C/12C) et de l'azote (15N/14N) a été réalisée pour étudier les différents niveaux trophiques et mettre en évidence l'existence de différentes sources de nourriture potentielles des communautés benthiques et démersales. Cinq principaux groupes trophiques constituent la base de la structure de la chaîne alimentaire. Trois niveaux trophiques ont été identifiés : consommateurs primaires, consommateurs secondaires (N. norvegicus et les juvéniles de M. merluccius) et les supers prédateurs comme les adultes de M. merluccius (δ15N = 14,5 ). Les grandes différences de δ13C au sein des consommateurs primaires attestent de deux différentes sources de nourriture : l'une pélagique composée de matière organique particulaire fraîche sédimentant, qui alimente principalement les suspensivores supra- et épi-benthiques, et le zooplancton et l'autre benthique qui alimente les déposivores. Les changements de régimes alimentaires des prédateurs, l'espèce cible et leurs compétiteurs, au cours de leur vie, se traduisent par des différences isotopiques entre les différentes classes de taille.



193) Recherche du mot : Statistiques bayésiennes (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bayesian_statistics)


194) Recherche du mot : Wind Speed (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/windSpeed)
1/253: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/windwavesandwingloadingmorphologicalspecializationmaylimitrangeexpansionofendangeredalbatrosses> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Wind, Waves, and Wing Loading: Morphological Specialization May Limit Range Expansion of Endangered Albatrosses
Among the varied adaptations for avian flight, the morphological traits allowing large-bodied albatrosses to capitalize on wind and wave energy for efficient long-distance flight are unparalleled. Consequently, the biogeographic distribution of most albatrosses is limited to the windiest oceanic regions on earth; however, exceptions exist. Species breeding in the North and Central Pacific Ocean (Phoebastria spp.) inhabit regions of lower wind speed and wave height than southern hemisphere genera, and have large intrageneric variation in body size and aerodynamic performance. Here, we test the hypothesis that regional wind and wave regimes explain observed differences in Phoebastria albatross morphology and we compare their aerodynamic performance to representatives from the other three genera of this globally distributed avian family. In the North and Central Pacific, two species (short-tailed P. albatrus and waved P. irrorata) are markedly larger, yet have the smallest breeding ranges near highly productive coastal upwelling systems. Short-tailed albatrosses, however, have 60% higher wing loading (weight per area of lift) compared to waved albatrosses. Indeed, calculated aerodynamic performance of waved albatrosses, the only tropical albatross species, is more similar to those of their smaller congeners (black-footed P. nigripes and Laysan P. immutabilis), which have relatively low wing loading and much larger foraging ranges that include central oceanic gyres of relatively low productivity. Globally, the aerodynamic performance of short-tailed and waved albatrosses are most anomalous for their body sizes, yet consistent with wind regimes within their breeding season foraging ranges. Our results are the first to integrate global wind and wave patterns with albatross aerodynamics, thereby identifying morphological specialization that may explain limited breeding ranges of two endangered albatross species. These results are further relevant to understanding past and potentially predicting future distributional limits of albatrosses globally, particularly with respect to climate change effects on basin-scale and regional wind fields.

2/254: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trendsinprimaryproductionseasurfacetemperatureandwindinupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Trends in primary production, sea surface temperature and wind in upwelling systems (1998-2007)
We take advantage of the longest high quality single-sensor global data set of ocean color available today to explore recent trends in the primary productivity of the main eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUEs): California, Canary, Humboldt and Benguela. The chlorophyll-a concentration is used as a proxy for primary production. SST data from AVHRR and wind speed data from QuikSCAT are used in conjunction with this data set to analyse forcing mechanisms explaining the chlorophyll biomass.
Whereas the worldwide primary-production biomass shows on average decreasing trends, as already observed in the stratified part of the worldwide ocean, the productivity of most EBUEs increases during the study period. These contrasting trends are both significant, at least for the mid latitude range of 50°S-50°N, where the data coverage is sufficient for accurate estimation.
Probably due to the large scale atmospheric forcing, trends in sea surface temperature (SST) show non-significant relationships with the trends in biomass within upwelling systems, suggesting that SST anomalies cannot be used as an indicator of change in upwelling intensity in a continuous warming context. On the other hand, upwelling favourable equatorward winds show a significant correlation with the observed trends in biomass, suggesting that the trends in the trade winds are probably linked to an increase in the intensity of the Hadley cell circulation observed during the last several decades.

3/255: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingandcomparingthespawninghabitatsofanchovyengraulisencrasicolusandsardinesardinopssagaxinthesouthernbenguelaupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Characterizing and comparing the spawning habitats of anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem
The spawning habitats of anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus and sardine Sardinops sagax in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem were characterised by comparing their egg abundances with environmental variables measured concomitantly during two different survey programmes: the South African Sardine and Anchovy Recruitment Programme (SARP), which comprised monthly surveys conducted during the austral summers of 1993/94 and 1994/95; and annual pelagic spawner biomass surveys conducted in early summer (November/December) from 1984 to 1999. Eggs were collected using a CalVET net. Physical variables measured included sea surface temperature (SST), surface salinity, water depth, mixed-layer depth, and current and wind speeds; biological variables measured included phytoplankton biomass, and zooplankton biomass and production. Spawning habitat was identified by construction of quotient curves derived from egg abundance data and individual environmental variables, and relationships between these variables were determined using multivariate co-inertia analysis. SARP data showed that anchovy spawning was associated with cool water and moderate wind and current speeds, whereas sardine spawning was related to warmer water and more turbulent and unstable conditions (i.e. high wind speeds and strong currents) than for anchovy. SARP data also showed significant differences in selection of spawning habitat of the two species for all environmental variables. The relationship between anchovy egg abundance and salinity was strongly positive, but strongly negative with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. Sardine egg abundance was strongly positively related to current speed. The spawner biomass survey data demonstrated that the spawning habitat of anchovy was characterised by warm water and high salinity, whereas sardine spawning was associated with cool water and low salinity. The survey data showed significant differences in spawning habitat selection by anchovy and sardine for SST, salinity and zooplankton biomass, but not for the other environmental variables. There was a positive relationship between anchovy egg abundance and SST, salinity and mixed-layer depth, and a negative relationship with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. For sardine there was a strong positive relationship between egg abundance and current speed and wind speed. Differences in the results between the two survey programmes could be attributable to differences in their spatio-temporal coverage. Spawning habitats of anchovy and sardine appear to be substantially different, with anchovy being more specific than sardine in their preference of various environmental conditions.



195) Recherche du mot : YFT (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_albacares)
1/256: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/aworkingproposalforayellowfingrowthcurvetobeusedduringtheyellowfinstockassessment> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : A working proposal for a Yellowfin growth curve to be used during the 2008 yellowfin stock assessment
This paper explains why the modelled growth curve proposed for YFT and using the Laslett et al model is heavily biased and that it should not be used to do the stock assessment analysis during the Bangkok meeting. An alternate ad hoc observed growth curve and a subsequent method allowing to slice the Catch at age table into a catch at age is proposed. The paper also recommends to model the YFT growth using a 3 stanza model.

2/257: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anupdatedanalysisoftagsheddingbytropicaltunasintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : An Updated Analysis of Tag-Shedding by Tropical Tunas in the Indian Ocean.
Tag shedding experiment was conducted during the Regional Tuna tagging
Project-Indian Ocean by double-tagging part of the tuna released (27,850
double tags with 4,650 recoveries) with the objective of assessing the tag
shedding rate (type-1 shedding (immediate shedding and tagging-induced
mortality) and tag-2 shedding (continuous shedding and tag-induced
mortality)). This rate was assessed by estimating α and λ of the probability
of tag retention equation Q(t) = α [β/(β+λt)]β). For SKJ α = 0.987, λ (per
year) = 0.015; for YFT α = 0.977, λ (per year) = 0.041 and for BET α =
0.996, λ (per year) = 0.024. These results are comparable to others obtained
from large-scale tropical tuna tagging project.



196) Recherche du mot : Chipiloua commun (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thysanoteuthis_rhombus)


197) Recherche du mot : Marlin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_spp)
1/258: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysisofdataobtainedfromobserverprogrammesconductedinandintheindianoceanonboardfrenchpurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Analysis of data obtained from observer programmes conducted in 2005 and 2006 in the indian ocean on board french purse seiners
This paper is a preliminary analysis of the data obtained under the National Database Plan (PNDB).
Between October 2005 and July 2006, three observers from the Development and Research Institute
(IRD) have been on board four French tuna purse seiners. They had to estimate by-catch and discard
and collect detailed information on the fishing activities and the use of FADs.
Areas prospected during these 134 days were NW Seychelles, SE Seychelles, E. Somalia and
Maldives-Chagos; 194 sets (116 positives and 86 negative) have been observed, with a majority
(84%) on free schools (162 sets, 51% positive) and quite few (16%) on associated schools (32 sets,
81% positives). During the day, the main activities of the boat were searching and fishing,
respectively 31% and 13% of total activity. Main reasons for null sets over free school as well as
FADs was that fish sinks or move too fast.
Discards were practically nulls and concerned mainly yellowfin tuna. About by-catch, it represents
less than 1% of total catch (in weight), mainly triggerfish, rainbow runner and wahoo. Selacians
(except shark whales) represented nearly 12% of the total by-catch (in weight) with mainly silky shark
over FADs and skate over free school. As regards billfishes, they represent 5% of total by-catch (in
weight) with mainly Indo-Pacific Sailfish over free school and black marlin over FADs.



198) Recherche du mot : Moroteuthis lonnbergii et lonnbergi dans FAO et dans worms !!! et Moroteuthis loennbergii  dans sealifebase !!!! (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/moroteuthis_lonnbergii)


199) Recherche du mot : thon blanc (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_alalunga)


200) Recherche du mot : Seerfishes nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_spp)


201) Recherche du mot : knoll (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/knoll)


202) Recherche du mot : Vent (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/wind)


203) Recherche du mot : Omosudis lowii dans worms et lowei dans FAO ??? (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ommosudis_lowsi)


204) Recherche du mot : Éléphant de mer austral (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mirounga_leonina)


205) Recherche du mot : Lepidocybium flavobrunneum (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lepidocybium_flavobrunneum)


206) Recherche du mot : Opah (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lampris_guttatus)


207) Recherche du mot : apron (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/apron)


208) Recherche du mot : trawlnet (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/trawlnet)


209) Recherche du mot : Poulpe (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/Octopus_vulgaris)
1/259: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evaluationdustockdepoulpeparlapprochestructuraleetanalysedelimpactdelarretbiologiqueinfaillerp> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Evaluation du stock de poulpe par l'approche structurale et analyse de l'impact de «l'arrêt biologique» In : Failler, P


2/260: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/diagnosticdeletatdustockdepoulpeoctopusvulgarismauritaniensyntheseetnouvellesevaluationsparlapprocheglobale> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Diagnostic de l'état du stock de poulpe (Octopus vulgaris) mauritanien : Synthèse et nouvelles évaluations par l'approche globale.




210) Recherche du mot : Snub-nosed cachalot (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/kogia_sima)


211) Recherche du mot : Bowel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bowel)


212) Recherche du mot : Marlin bleu Atlantique dans stomac (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_nigricans)


213) Recherche du mot : Scopelosaurus hoedti (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scopelosaurus_hoedti)


214) Recherche du mot : Requin blanc (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharodon_carcharias)


215) Recherche du mot : Parin's spinyfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diretmoides_parini)


216) Recherche du mot : Diaphus spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diaphus_spp)


217) Recherche du mot : Thazard rayé (Indo-Pacifique) (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_commerson)


218) Recherche du mot : CTOI identifier for a vessel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ctoiId)


219) Recherche du mot : colline abyssale (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/abyssal_hill)


220) Recherche du mot : nellie (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/macronectes_halli)


221) Recherche du mot : DURBAN (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_ZAF_DUR)


222) Recherche du mot : Makaire blanc (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_albidus)


223) Recherche du mot : Oxyporhamphus micropterus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/oxyporhamphus_micropterus)


224) Recherche du mot : Pelagic thresher (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alopias_pelagicus)


225) Recherche du mot : Melva y melvera (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_sp)


226) Recherche du mot : Gymnosarda unicolor (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/gymnosarda_unicolor)


227) Recherche du mot : Chiasmodon niger (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/chiasmodon_niger)


228) Recherche du mot : Natural resources exploitation (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/natural_resources_exploitation)


229) Recherche du mot : Atlantic saury (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberesox_saurus)


230) Recherche du mot : hole (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/hole)


231) Recherche du mot : White-chinned Petrel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/procellaria_aequinoctialis)


232) Recherche du mot : AEF domain concept (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/aep_domain_concept)


233) Recherche du mot : Diaphus dumerilii (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diaphus_dumerilii)


234) Recherche du mot : South American fur seal (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/arctocephalus_Australis)


235) Recherche du mot : Scopelarchus analis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scopelarchus_analis)


236) Recherche du mot : front_deck (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/front_deck)


237) Recherche du mot : Lutjanus gibbus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lutjanus_gibbus)


238) Recherche du mot : Anatife (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lepas_anatifera)


239) Recherche du mot : Bolinichthys photothorax (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bolinichthys_photothorax)


240) Recherche du mot : Agura blanca (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_albidus)


241) Recherche du mot : engins de détection (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/detection_gear)


242) Recherche du mot : Diaphus garmani (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diaphus_garmani)


243) Recherche du mot : atmospheric element (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/atmospheric_element)


244) Recherche du mot : Tasarte (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/orcynopsis_unicolor)


245) Recherche du mot : phoebetria palpebrata (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/phoebetria_palpebrata)


246) Recherche du mot : Rhynchonereella angelinia dans worms !!!! (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/rynchonerella_angelini)


247) Recherche du mot : Carapidae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carapidae)


248) Recherche du mot : élément géomorphologique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/geomorphologic_element)


249) Recherche du mot : scientific tool (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/scientific_tool)


250) Recherche du mot : Arabian sea ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/arabian_sea)


251) Recherche du mot : Diomedea exulans (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diomedea_exulans)
1/261: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/factorsdeterminingtheforagingrangeofwanderingalbatrossesduringtheirbreedingseasonanindividualbasedmodelibmapproach> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Factors determining the foraging range of wandering albatrosses during their breeding season : an individual based model (IBM) approach
Understanding the ecology of albatrosses at sea and in particular their foraging range and the location of their feeding zones is a critical issue for a better understanding of their population dynamics in a changing environment. Since the onset of satellite tracking techniques, it is possible to describe albatross trajectories in both space and time and infer their foraging ranges. Despite these important improvements in our observational capabilities, it is still difficult to evaluate the influence of local environmental cues such as wind and food availability on bird's trajectories. In this talk, we present an Individual Based Model (IBM) of flight pattern and foraging behaviour of free-ranging albatrosses (Diomedea exulans) breeding on the Crozet Islands, in the southwest Indian Ocean. We use winds measured by the satellite Quick-Sat and fields of food simulated by a trophodynamic model as forcing fields. In the IBM model, individuals can choose between different strategies using wind direction and food concentration. The development of the IBM follows a “pattern oriented modelling approach” (POM) in order to determine which strategy better fits the observed trajectories. The IBM is then used to infer potential new foraging areas when wind conditions and prey distribution change. The consequences of such environmental changes on albatross distribution are important issues regarding the conservation of this endangered oceanic top predator.



252) Recherche du mot : Liver (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/liver)
1/262: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.



253) Recherche du mot : engins de pêche (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fishing_gear)
1/263: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/chantiergolfedegascogne> : SCORE = 2.4566324
Doc : Chantier Golfe de gascogne
L'action des engins de pêche sur le fond a déjà été décrite, filmée. La comparaison de prélèvements dans le secteur de la Grande Vasière réalisés à 30 ans d'intervalle met en évidence une évolution de la faune et de la nature du fond (Le Loch, 2004). Mais peu de chiffres argumentés permettent de quantifier l'impact des engins de pêche sur le fond.
Cette étude pluridisciplinaire se base sur :
- une connaissance de la structure sédimentaire du plateau de la Grande Vasière,
- une analyse des phénomènes en jeu dans le cycle dépôt-remobilisation de la colonne sédimentaire (apports fluviaux, front thermo-halin, houle, courant, organismes fouisseurs,….),
- une typologie des engins de pêche utilisés sur le plateau et un descriptif (largeur balayée, enfoncement, …) de l'action de chacun des éléments (bourrelet, chaîne, bras, panneau)
- une sélection de l'effort de pêche 2003 pour 6 classes de longueur de navire, 9 carrés statistiques, 2 types d'engin (chalut simple ou jumeau) et 2 types de prises (langoustines ou non : différenciation des efforts focalisés sur la Grande Vasière de ceux également répartis dans les carrés statistiques ).
Les résultats portent sur la surface balayée et la quantité de sédiments fins remis en suspension. La paramétrisation des formules permet de tester l'influence de tels ou tels éléments dans le bilan global.
Ainsi chaque mètre carré de la Grande Vasière est balayé au minimum 6 fois par an. La remobilisation des sédiments fins par les engins de pêche est comparable à la remobilisation par les tempêtes.



254) Recherche du mot : Rhincodon typus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/rhincodon_typus)


255) Recherche du mot : sériole limon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seriola_rivoliana)


256) Recherche du mot : bassine (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/bassine)


257) Recherche du mot : Platax teira (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/platax_teira)


258) Recherche du mot : Humphead snapper (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lutjanus_sanguineus)


259) Recherche du mot : Kemp's ridley sea turtle (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lepidochelys_kempii)


260) Recherche du mot : Surpêche (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/overfishing)


261) Recherche du mot : blabla (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/trawl)


262) Recherche du mot : southern giant petrel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/macronectes_giganteus)


263) Recherche du mot : matte (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/matte)


264) Recherche du mot : Ecosystème du courant des Aiguilles (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/agulhas_current_ecosystem)


265) Recherche du mot : Remora sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/remora_sp)


266) Recherche du mot : Blackfin tuna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_atlanticus)


267) Recherche du mot : Chispa (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/electrona_risso)


268) Recherche du mot : Raja rays nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/raja_spp)


269) Recherche du mot : Thazard serra (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_cavalla)


270) Recherche du mot : Natural resources management (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/natural_resources_management)


271) Recherche du mot : Senegal (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/senegalSea)
1/264: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/movementsoftropicaltunasfromthetunaassociatedbaitboatfisheryofdakarandfrombetypandhistoricaltaggingoperationsintheatlanticocean> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Movements of tropical tunas from the tuna-associated baitboat fishery of Dakar and from BETYP and historical tagging operations in the Atlantic Ocean
Tagging operations were conducted in the northern part of the Dakar baitboat fishing area
(13°N-21°N/15°W-25°W) from 1994 to 2000 (MAC program) and in the eastern Atlantic Ocean
by the BETYP program from 1999 to 2003. BETYP tagging took place in the Gulf of Guinea, in
Mauritania-Senegal (in collaboration with MAC), in the Canary, Madeira and Azores islands.
Movements of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye from Dakar baitboats are presented together with
tuna movements obtained from BETYP recoveries. These data are compared with movements
from historical tagging operations conducted from 1955 to 1998 in the entire Atlantic Ocean.
More emphasis is put on bigeye, as the main objective of BETYP is to obtain a better
understanding of bigeye stock structure and other parameters relevant to stock assessment.

2/265: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/assessingtheimpactoffisheriesondemersalfishassemblagesofthemauritaniancontinentalshelfusingdominancecurves> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Assessing the impact of fisheries on demersal fish assemblages of the Mauritanian continental shelf, 1987–1999, using dominance curves
The assemblages of demersal fish and associated species of the Mauritanian continental
shelf are characterized on the basis of annual trawl surveys conducted during the period
1987e1999. Species composition is dominated by exploited species (Dentex spp., Pagellus
bellottii, and Octopus vulgaris). Dominance curves (Abundance Biomass Comparison
plots) were used to evaluate the impact of fisheries, which have increased in magnitude over
several decades. The diagnosis of a ‘‘stressed'' assemblage seems to converge with the
results of a similar study conducted off Senegal, but here there was no trend in impact
during the period of study. The sensitivity of the present results to the various ways of
considering the available taxonomic information is also analysed.

3/266: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimatesofhistoricchangesintotalmortalityandselectivityforeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamisfromlengthcompositiondata> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Estimates of historic changes in total mortality and selectivity for  Eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) from length composition data
Catch-at-size data of the eastern Atlantic skipjack were used to estimate changes in total mortality from 1969 to 2007. We used a transitional model of mean length that generalized the Beverton-Holt mortality estimator to allow change in mortality rate under nonequilibrium conditions. Then, from homogeneous periods of time, length-converted catch curves were used to access qualitative changes in selectivity patterns for two surface fisheries (the baitboat fishery operating from Dakar, Senegal, and the European and associated purse seine fisheries). To explore the impact of catch on the mortality rate, a Bayesian change-point analysis was conducted on the catch time series to detect concomitant variation between mortality rates and catch. Finally, potential causes of these changes are discussed in relation to the implementation of new fishing technology, such fish aggregating devices (FAD). The general pattern depicted by total mortality is in agreement with previous knowledge on this fishery: a state of complete or practically complete exploitation during the nineties followed by the decrease in nominal purse seine fishing effort in the last decade, combined with the effect of a seasonal moratorium on FAD fishing operations. There was no evidence of a change in selectivity between the two contrasted periods of time considered: 1969-1979 and 1986-1999; the second period being characterized by the introduction of new technology onboard vessels. In contrast, the covariation over time between total catch and mortality rate three years later highlights the effect of the fishing pressure on the stock of eastern Atlantic skipjack.

4/267: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/decadalenvironmentalandecologicalchangesinthecanarycurrentlargemarineecosystemandadjacentwaterspatternsofconnectionsandteleconnection> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Decadal environmental and ecological changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem and adjacent waters : Patterns of connections and teleconnection
In order to explore decadal changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem (LME), wind and SST data collected by merchant ships are extracted from the Comprehensive Ocean Atmosphere Data Set (COADS) database from 1950 to 1995 within sixteen boxes along the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from 10°N up to 43°N.  Potential biases are reviewed and discussed when considering long-term changes and large spatial resolution. The heterogeneity of the seasonal patterns in the Canary current is described.  Decadal environmental changes are explored using Sea Surface Temperature (SST) data.  In the early and mid-1970s, an intensive cooling had a large latitudinal extension that affected the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from Spain to Senegal.  This cooling period was followed by a warming period, which started in the 1980s. Fisheries, fish stock abundance as well as fish population distributions have drastically changed during the last five decades. The sardine populations off Morocco widely fluctuated in a disconnected manner and a substantial increase in biomass was observed in fishing zone C (located between 20°N and 27°N) during the mid-1970s and mid-1980s. Several outbursts of fish populations (Micromesistius poutassou, Macrorhamphosus scolopax and M. gracilis, Octopus vulgaris, Balistes carolinensis) were observed during the last three decades in the Canary Current. In the case of the latter species it was connected with the outburst populations which took place in the Gulf of Guinea LME.  Upwelling intensity and sea surface temperature are strongly linked and are thought to affect both spatial distribution and abundance of fish in the Canary Current LME.  Ecosystems appear to be connected at very large scales through climatic teleconnection between the Northern and Central Atlantic but also between the Pacific and the Atlantic as the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index and the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events seem to have a major impact on the dynamics of the upwelling in the Canary Current.

5/268: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/athreedimensionalapproachtoschooltypologyusingverticalscanningmultibeamsonar> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : A three-dimensional approach to school typology using vertical scanning multibeam sonar
Fish school typology is usually based on vertical echosounding images. These images provide little objective information on school structure (internal characteristics) or morphology (external characteristics). This paper considers the possibility of using multibeam sonar for 3D recording of the external morphology and internal structure of schools, to enhance the identification of typological criteria. We used recordings of 668 schools obtained from three different regions (Senegal, 68; Venezuela, 343; Mexico, 257) on two different Clupeids (Venezuela and Senegal: Sardinella aurita; Mexico: Sardinops sagax). We extracted 26 parameters (4 geographical; 6 morphological; 16 structural) from each school in the data base, using geostatistics and 3D image-reconstruction software. The schools were very homogeneous in most of their characteristics, presenting unimodal distributions of most parameters. Structural variables presented a higher power of discrimination (significant differences among zones, species and positions in the water column) than morphological ones. Multivariate statistics (principal component analysis followed by mixed hierarchical classification) allowed the definition of four main classes of schools. The conclusion is that the structural data provided by multibeam sonar improves the possibility of obtaining a consistent typology.

6/269: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteontheyearlycatchesbycountryandgearofthefismfranceivorycoastsenegalmoroccofleetduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 1.0637529
Doc : Note on the yearly catches by country and gear of the FISM (France - Ivory Coast - Senegal - Morocco) fleet during the 1969-1990 period
The current ICCAT Task 1 statistics database does not include any record of catch for Senegal and Ivory Coast during the period 1969-1990 as these data were historically included in the aggregated catch data of the so-called “FISM” fleet under the flag ‘EC.France'. Landing and logbook data were used to reallocate the FISM fleet catch between countries. This analysis shows the need to clarify the Task 1 ICCAT statistics by country and historic gear, and ask France, Ivory Coast and Senegal to declare their respective catch during 1969-1990. This change in the ICCAT database will not affect the total catch of Task 1 statistics.

7/270: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/emergenceofaselforganizeddynamicfisherysectorapplicationtosimulationofthesmallscalefreshfishsupplychaininsenegal> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Emergence of a Self-Organized Dynamic Fishery Sector: Application to Simulation of the Small-Scale Fresh Fish Supply Chain in Senegal


8/271: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thetrophicspectrumtheoryandapplicationasanecosystemindicator> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : The trophic spectrum: theory and application as an ecosystem indicator
Trophic spectra represent the distribution of biomass, abundance, or catch by trophic level, and may be used as indicators of the trophic structure and functioning of aquatic ecosystems in a fisheries context. As a theoretical background, we present a simple ecosystem model of biomass flow reflecting predation and ontogenetic processes. Biomass trophic spectrum of total biomass can be modelled as the result of three major factors and processes: trophic efficiency, transfer kinetics, and extent of top-down control. In the simulations, changes in the spectrum highlight fishing impacts on trophic structure and reveal some functional characteristics of the underlying ecosystem. As examples of potential applications, three case studies of trophic spectra are presented. Catch trophic spectra allow description of structural differences among European fishing areas and periods. Abundance trophic spectra of coral-reef fish assemblages display different trophic signatures, characterizing different reef habitats in New Caledonia and highlighting fishing effects in a marine protected area context. Biomass trophic spectra of demersal resources off Northwest Africa show a shift in ecosystem structure that can be attributed to the rapid increase in fishing pressure during the past few decades. Off Senegal, total biomass remained fairly constant, suggesting a strong top-down control linked to fisheries targeting high trophic level species. Off Guinea, exploitation rates are spread over a wider range of trophic levels, and the total biomass of demersal resources tended to decrease. The trophic spectrum is concluded to be a useful indicator describing and comparing systems in time and space, detecting phase shifts linked to natural or anthropogenic perturbations, and revealing differences in ecosystem functioning.

9/272: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ameliorationdesdonneesstatistiquesdelapechethonieredanslazonedelatlantiqueesttropical> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Amélioration des données statistiques de la pêche thonière dans la zone de l'Atlantique Est Tropical
This paper presents the results of the Regional Workshop for the improvement of the statistics
relevant to ICCAT in the costal countries of the central area of Africa. The Workshop was held
in Senegal in 2006 and was financed by the JDIP.

10/273: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/schoolingbehaviourofsmallpelagicfishphenotypicexpressionofindependentstimuli> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Schooling behaviour of small pelagic fish: phenotypic expression of independent stimuli
We compared echo sounder measurements of fish schools on Venezuelan and Senegalese coastal shelves. In both areas Sardinella aurita was the predominant aggregative species; the stocks are known to be genetically independent. Persistent school typology is described by analysing 7 acoustic surveys in Venezuela and comparing with pioneer observations in Senegal. The echo types encountered in both countries were comparable, with S. aurita and their associated species having comparable schooling behaviour. School morphology appears to be more related to species than to global characteristics of their ecosystems, as fish school descriptors were similar for both stocks. Nevertheless, S. aurita may adopt different school morphologies. Differentiation between day and night fish schools was mainly due to morphological variables, as determined by fractal dimension. Echo types were different between day and night in both Venezuela and Senegal. This analysis shows that several independent parameters can influence school morphology. However, although schooling behaviour is temporally highly variable, it shows several constant, typical 2D morphological structures, i.e. echo types. The observation of small pelagic fish schools occurring during the night is not unusual according to the literature, although a strict diurnal schooling behaviour, with scattering during the night, is often reported. Schooling behaviour appears to be a phenotypic expression depending on biotic and abiotic stimuli, intrinsic characteristics and motivation.



272) Recherche du mot : Rio Mare (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/via_euros)


273) Recherche du mot : Isurus oxyrinchus dans worms et fao, fishbase dans wiki !! (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/isurus_oxyrhinchus)


274) Recherche du mot : South Atlantic Ocean (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/southAtlanticOcean)


275) Recherche du mot : common remora (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/remora_remora)


276) Recherche du mot : DUBAI (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_ARE_DXB)


277) Recherche du mot : Southern bluefin tuna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_maccoyii)


278) Recherche du mot : Cap St Vincent (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/cap_st_vincent)


279) Recherche du mot : Crimson jobfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pristipomoides_filamentosus)


280) Recherche du mot : Marlins,sailfishes,etc nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/katsuwonus_pelamis)


281) Recherche du mot : Almaco jack (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seriola_rivoliana)


282) Recherche du mot : Catalan-Balearic Sea (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/balearicSea)


283) Recherche du mot : Somalian protected marine area (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ampExampleCaseStudy)


284) Recherche du mot : tortue (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/turtle)


285) Recherche du mot : trophic level (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/trophic_level)
1/274: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.

2/275: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophodynamicindicatorsforanecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Trophodynamic indicators for an ecosystem approach to fisheries
Acknowledging ecological interactions, such as predation, is key to an ecosystem approach to fisheries. Trophodynamic indicators are needed to measure the strength of the interactions between the different living components, and of structural ecosystem changes resulting from exploitation. We review trophodynamic indicators derived from models, as well as from emergent patterns such as trophic cascades and regime shifts. From 46 indicators identified in the literature, six (catch or biomass ratios, primary production required to support catch, production or consumption ratios and predation mortality, trophic level of the catch, fishing-in-balance, and mixed trophic impact) were selected because of their ability to reveal ecosystem-level patterns, and because they match published criteria. This suite of indicators is applied to the northern and southern Benguela ecosystems, and their performance is evaluated to depict drastic and contrasted ecosystem changes. A few complementary indicators are suggested as needed to detect the trophodynamic impacts of fisheries and ecosystem changes. Trends in indicators are sensitive to the choice of trophic level made for certain species. Trophodynamic indicators appear to be conservative, because they respond slowly to large structural changes in an ecosystem. Application of the selected indicators to other marine ecosystems is encouraged so as to evaluate fully their usefulness to an ecosystem approach to fisheries, and to establish international comparability.
©2004 International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. Published by  Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

3/276: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/isotopicevidenceofdistinctfeedingecologiesandmovementpatternsintwomigratorypredatorsyellowfintunaandswordfishofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Isotopic evidence of distinct feeding ecologies and movement patterns in two migratory predators (yellowfin tuna and swordfish) of the western Indian Ocean
Ecologists primarily use δ15N values to estimate the trophic level of organisms, while δ13C, and even recently δ15N, are utilized to delineate feeding habitats. However, many factors can influence the stable isotopic composition of consumers, e.g. age, starvation or isotopic signature of primary producers. Such sources of variability make the interpretation of stable isotope data rather complex. To examine these potential sources of variability, muscle tissues of yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) and swordfish (Xiphias gladius) of various body lengths were sampled between 2001 and 2004 in the western Indian Ocean during different seasons and along a latitudinal gradient (23°S to 5°N). Body length and latitude effects on δ15N and δ13C were investigated using linear models. Both latitude and body length significantly affect the stable isotope values of the studied species but variations were much more pronounced for δ15N. We explain the latitudinal effect by differences in nitrogen dynamics existing at the base of the food web and propagating along the food chain up to top predators. This spatial pattern suggests that yellowfin and swordfish populations exhibit a relatively unexpected resident behaviour at the temporal scale of their muscle tissue turnover. The body length effect is significant for both species but this effect is more pronounced in swordfish as a consequence of their different feeding strategies, reflecting specific physiological abilities. Swordfish adults are able to reach very deep water and have access to a larger size range of prey than yellowfin tuna. In contrast, yellowfin juveniles and adults spend most of their time in the surface waters and large yellowfin tuna continue to prey on small organisms. Consequently, nitrogen isotopic signatures of swordfish tissues are higher than those of yellowfin tuna and provide evidence for different trophic levels between these species. Thus, in contrast to δ13C, δ15N analyses of tropical Indian Ocean marine predators allow the investigation of complex vertical and spatial segregation, both within and between species, even in the case of highly opportunistic feeding behaviours. The linear models developed in this study allow us to make predictions of δ15N values and to correct for any body length or latitude differences in future food web studies.

4/277: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/sensitivityofmarinesystemstoclimateandfishingconceptsissuesandmanagementresponses> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Sensitivity of marine systems to climate and fishing: Concepts, issues and management responses
Modern fisheries research and management must understand and take account of the interactions between climate and fishing, rather than try to disentangle their effects and address each separately. These interactions are significant drivers of change in exploited marine systems and have ramifications for ecosystems and those who depend on the services they provide. We discuss how fishing and climate forcing interact on individual fish, marine populations, marine communities, and ecosystems to bring these levels into states that are more sensitive to (i.e. more strongly related with) climate forcing. Fishing is unlikely to alter the sensitivities of individual finfish and invertebrates to climate forcing. It will remove individuals with specific characteristics from the gene pool, thereby affecting structure and function at higher levels of organisation. Fishing leads to a loss of older age classes, spatial contraction, loss of sub-units, and alteration of life history traits in populations, making them more sensitive to climate variability at interannual to interdecadal scales. Fishing reduces the mean size of individuals and mean trophic level of communities, decreasing their turnover time leading them to track environmental variability more closely. Marine ecosystems under intense exploitation evolve towards stronger bottom–up control and greater sensitivity to climate forcing. Because climate change occurs slowly, its effects are not likely to have immediate impacts on marine systems but will be manifest as the accumulation of the interactions between fishing and climate variability — unless threshold limits are exceeded. Marine resource managers need to develop approaches which maintain the resilience of individuals, populations, communities and ecosystems to the combined and interacting effects of climate and fishing. Overall, a less-heavily fished marine system, and one which shifts the focus from individual species to functional groups and fish communities, is likely to provide more stable catches with climate variability and change than would a heavily fished system.
Crown Copyright © 2009 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

5/278: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/congenerspecificaccumulationandtrophictransferofpolychlorinatedbiphenylsinspidercrabfoodwebsrevealedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Congener-specific accumulation and trophic transfer of  polychlorinated biphenyls in spider crab food webs revealed by stable isotope analysis
Polychlorobiphenyls (PCB) and stable isotopes (δ15N and δ13C) were analyzed in the spider crab (Maja brachydactyla) food web from the Iroise Sea (Western Brittany) and the Seine Bay (Eastern English Channel). PCB concentrations were all significantly higher in organisms from the Seine Bay than those from the Iroise Sea. PCB patterns were strongly related to the feeding mode of the species, and increased influence of higher chlorinated congeners was highlighted with trophic position of the organisms. PCB concentrations (lipid normalized) were significantly related to the isotopically derived trophic level (TL) in spider crab food webs. The highest trophic magnification factors (TMFs) were calculated for the congeners with 2,4,5-substitution, and were lower in the Seine Bay compared to the Iroise Sea. The confrontation of PCB and TL data also revealed biotransformation capacity of decapod crustaceans for specific congeners based on structure–activity relations.

6/279: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/functionalgroupbiodiversityineasternboundaryupwellingecosystemsquestionsthewaspwaisttrophicstructure> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Functional group biodiversity in Eastern Boundary Upwelling Ecosystems questions the wasp-waist trophic structure
The species diversity of the four major Eastern Boundary Upwelling Ecosystems (EBUEs) is studied and compared with the aim of better understanding their functioning. Functional groups (FGs) of organisms were defined according to their taxonomy, body size and trophic level (TL), and span from plankton to top predators. Four large sub-divisions are defined in each system: two latitudinal sub-divisions (north and south) and two zonal sub-divisions (inshore and offshore), resulting in four sub-ecosystems per EBUE. A semi-quantitative approach is used in which only the dominant species (contributing 90% of overall biomass) are considered. EBUEs are compared in regard to their species composition, dominant species richness and evenness within FGs. The data are interpreted, focusing on latitudinal, zonal and depth gradients of diversity. Trophic flows (inflow and outflow) through the small pelagic fish FG are derived from different Ecopath models. This analysis of the four ecosystems and their sub-divisions does not provide support for the expected wasp-waist food web structure and functioning, with a single or several species of small pelagic fish primarily channelling the energy flow from lower to higher TL. Instead, similar low levels of richness were observed in many FGs of intermediate TL, allowing several energy transfer pathways. The gamma diversity is high due to the geographical distance between EBUEs and the presence or absence of rivers, but not to differences in their latitudinal position. The beta diversity is also high, due to the same factors plus the variation in shelf width and the contrast between inshore and offshore sub-divisions. The differences in richness and evenness among EBUEs are minor and do not explain the higher secondary and tertiary productivity of the Humboldt ecosystem.

7/280: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofstablesignaturesdcanddnintwospidercrabpopulationsmajabrachydactylainwesterneurope> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Variability of stable signatures (d13C and d15N) in two spider crab populations (Maja brachydactyla) in Western Europe
The ontogenic variations of nitrogen and carbon stable isotopic signatures (δ15N and δ13C) were investigated in two spider crab (Maja brachydactyla) populations inhabiting in different biotopes of Western Europe. The Iroise Sea population is localized in Western Brittany and characterized by a seasonal migration occurring on a large bathymetric and habitat gradient while the Seine Bay population, in the Eastern English Channel, remains in a more homogeneous environment during its migration. In the Iroise Sea population, δ13C values increased significantly both with body size and age, revealing a shift towards “benthic-component” prey with spider crab growth. On the contrary, neither body size nor ageing gave rise to a significant trophic level change (derived from the δ15N). In this M. brachydactyla population, the seasonal migrations from coastal waters in summer to offshore habitats in winter involved significant but slight differences in both δ13C and δ15N. In the Seine Bay population, low variations for both carbon and nitrogen were recorded related to either sex or size or seasonal migration. Thus, the δ13C and δ15N variability in the spider crab depends on the availability and diversity of prey in its different living habitats, as well as on the morphological aptitudes of individuals to feed on prey (individual's size).

8/281: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/defigolfedegascogne> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Défi Golfe de Gascogne
The accumulation of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), DDTs (p,p'DDT [1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane], p,p'DDD [1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane], p,p'-DDE [1,1-dichloro-2,2bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethene]), lindane (HCH) and hexachlorobenzene (HCB) was investigated in a marine food web from the Bay of Biscay. The food web consisted of phytoplankton, zooplankton, suprabenthic organisms (mysidacean and euphausiacean), four species of shrimps (Crangon allmanni; Solenocera membranacea; Processa sp. and Alpheus glaber), goby, horse mackerel blue whiting, pout, poor cod and hake (Merluccius merluccius). The results show that interspecies differences in organochlorine compositional patterns in the food web depend on several factors (allometric, biochemical and physiological) specific to both chemicals and organisms. The importance of dietary accumulation and metabolic capacity increases toward higher trophic level, while the organochlorine patterns are to a larger extent determinated by the lipophilicity and water solubility of the compounds at lower trophic levels (phytoplankton). Furthermore, stable nitrogen isotopes provided a continuous measure of trophic position allowing the quantification of the increases in the concentrations of PCB and SDDTs (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane) and the percentages of highly chlorinated PCB through the food web. The information provided may be important for future modelling of the fate of organochlorine contaminants in marine food webs.

9/282: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/investigatingtrophiclevelvariabilityincelticseafishpredators> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Investigating trophic-level variability in Celtic Sea fish predators
The trophic level (TL) mean and variance, and the degree of omnivory for five Celtic Sea fish predators were estimated using a database of stomach content records characterized by a high level of taxonomic resolution. The predators occupied a high position in the food web, i.e. 4-75 for Atlantic cod Gadus morhua, 4-44 for  haddock Melanogrammus aeglefinus, 4-88 for European hake Merluccius merluccius, 5-00 for megrim Lepidorhombus whiffiagonis and 5-27 for whiting Merlangius merlangus. The level of taxonomic resolution of the prey did not greatly affect mean TL predator values; an effect on variance was evident, low resolution masking intra-population variability in TL. Generalized additive models (GAM) were used to explain the variability of predator TL caused by environmental variables (International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES, division and season) and predator characteristics (total length, LT). Significant year, location season and interaction effects were found for some species and with LT at the scale of ICES subdivision. The species-specific variability of TL could be due to spatio-temporal
variations in prey availability and in predator selectivity following ontogenetic changes. Omnivorous fish TL was less affected by spatio-temporal variations. In addition, results showed that the omnivory index and TL variability provide dissimilar information on predator feeding strategy. Combining information on TL variability and omnivory allowed between withinindividual and between-individual components contributing to trophic niche width to be separated and the type of generalization of fish predators to be identified. 
 2008 The Authors
©Journal compilation © 2008 The Fisheries Society of the British Isles

10/283: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/resourcepartitioningwithinatropicalseabirdcommunitynewinformationfromstableisotopes> : SCORE = 1.013309
Doc : Resource partitioning within a tropical seabird community: new information from stable isotopes
Characteristics of the tropical oceanic environment (low productivity, little seasonality) and poor diversity of tropical seabird foraging methods and prey relative to temperate and polar species suggest that tropical seabirds overall encompass a narrow range of isotopic niches, with large overlaps among species. To test this hypothesis, we examined the stable carbon (δ13C) and nitrogen (δ15N) isotopic composition of blood and feathers of 5 seabird species from Europa Island, Mozambique Channel. While differences were small, blood δ13C and δ15N values characterized 5 distinct and non-overlapping trophic niches during the breeding period. Seabirds used 2 distinct foraging areas (δ13C), one used by sooty tern Sterna fuscata and white-tailed tropicbird Phaethon lepturus and one used by red-footed booby Sula sula and great Fregata minor and lesser F. ariel frigatebirds. Seabird species overall encompassed less than 1 trophic level (δ15N), which is in agreement with a diet mainly based on flying fish and squid. Feather δ13C and δ15N values showed that the trophic structure of the community was different during the breeding and non-breeding (moulting) periods, suggesting a shift in the feeding ecology when adult birds were no longer central-place foragers. The stable isotope method underlined sex-related (red-footed booby) and age-related (great frigatebird immatures and adults) feeding strategies. It also suggested that breeding adults could feed themselves on different prey than those given to their chicks (sooty tern). Within the tropical pelagic ecosystem, seabirds overall shared the same trophic level as large predatory fishes (albacore, yellowfin and skipjack tunas), but they had lower δ15N values than the deeper-dwelling bigeye tuna and swordfish. We conclude that analyzing stable isotope values in blood and feathers appears to be a promising alternative method for investigating food and feeding ecology of tropical seabirds year round, and for determining sex- and age-related differences in their foraging strategies. A limitation of the method is the lack of information on marine isoscapes; future studies aimed at isotopically characterizing the tropical marine environment could help to associate consumer signatures to geographic origins.

11/284: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/changesinfoodwebstructureunderscenariosofoverfishinginthesouthernbenguelacomparisonoftheecosimandosmosemodellingapproaches> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Changes in food web structure under scenarios of overfishing in the southern Benguela: comparison of the Ecosim and OSMOSE modelling approaches
Ecosystem models provide a platform allowing exploration into the possible responses of marine food webs to fishing pressure and various potential management decisions. In this study we investigate the particular effects of overfishing on the structure and function of the southern Benguela food web, using two models with different underlying assumptions: the spatialized, size-based individual-based model, OSMOSE, and the trophic mass-balance model, Ecopath with Ecosim (EwE). Starting from the same reference state of the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem during the 1990s, we compare the response of the food web to scenarios of overfishing using these two modelling approaches. A scenario of increased fishing mortality is applied to two distinct functional groups: i) two species of Cape hake, representing important target predatory fish, and ii) the forage species anchovy, sardine and redeye. In these simulations, fishing mortality on the selected functional groups is doubled for 10 years, followed by 10 years at the initial fishing mortality. We compare the food web states before the increase of fishing mortality, after 10 years of overfishing and after a further 10 years during which fishing was returned to initial levels. In order to compare the simulated food web structures with the reference state, and between the two modelling approaches, we use a set of trophic indicators: the mean trophic level of the community and in catches, the trophic pyramid (biomass per discrete trophic level), and the predatory/forage fish biomass ratio. OSMOSE and EwE present globally similar results for the trophic functioning of the ecosystem under fishing pressure: the biomass of targeted species decreases whereas that of their potential competitors increases. The reaction of distant species is more diverse, depending on the feeding links between the compartments. The mean trophic level of the community does not vary enough to be used for assessing ecosystem impacts of fishing, and the mean trophic level in the catch displays a surprising increase due to the short period of overfishing. The trophic pyramids behave in an unexpected way compared to trophic control theory, because at least two food chains with different dynamics are intertwined within the food web. We emphasize the importance of biomass information at the species level for interpreting dynamics in aggregated indicators, and we highlight the importance of competitive groups when looking at ecosystem functioning under fishing disturbance. Finally, we discuss the results within the scope of differences between models, in terms of the way they are formulated, spatial dimensions, predation formulations and the representation of fish life cycles.

12/285: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicsignatureofcoralreeffishassemblagestowardsapotentialindicatorofecosystemdisturbance> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Trophic signature of coral reef fish assemblages: towards a potential indicator of ecosystem disturbance
Face to the increasing anthropogenic disturbances that affect coral reef ecosystems, it becomes urgent to define appropriate ecological indicators for monitoring purposes. One useful approach is to search for a simplified description of the structure of biological communities that are highly diverse and complex on coral reefs. To this end, we propose to represent the trophic structure of coral reef fish assemblages by using fractional trophic levels assigned to each fish species. Fish abundance trophic spectra (i.e., the distributions of fish abundance per trophic level) were established for the fringing reefs of two bays located in the city of Noumea (New Caledonia). The comparison of these trophic spectra revealed a similar trophic structure in the two bays, in spite of contrasted levels of fish abundance due to habitat damages. The embayment degree was characterized by changes in the fish trophic structure, reflecting a decreasing influence of urban and industrial wastes discharged in the bottom of the bays. This case of study shows the interest of using fractional trophic levels for the description of highly diverse biological communities. The trophic level-based approach offers new prospects in the search for ecological indicators, by characterizing the structure of biological communities by trophic signatures which testify to the disturbance level affecting their environment.

13/286: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/nitrogenandcarbonisotopevaluesofindividualaminoacidsatooltostudyforagingecologyofpenguinsinthesouthernocean> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Nitrogen and carbon isotope values of individual amino acids: a tool to study foraging ecology of penguins in the Southern Ocean
We determined the δ15N and δ13C values of individual amino acids (AAs) isolated from chick blood of 4 penguin species that forage in different oceanic regions (from the subtropics of the Indian Ocean to Antarctica) to test if: (1) the δ15N values of phenylalanine (δ15N phe) revealed different foraging areas among the species; (2) the difference between glutamic acid and phenylalanine δ15N values (Δδ15Nglu-phe) accurately predicted trophic levels; and (3) the δ13C value of AAs could resolve species foraging locations, similar to bulk δ13C values. The δ13C values of all AAs decreased with latitude, were positively correlated with bulk δ13C data, and, therefore, tracked the isotopic baseline. However, we were not able to discern additional ecological information from these δ13C values. In contrast, the δ15N values of AAs distinguished the isotopic value of the nitrogen at the base of the food web from the trophic level of the consumer, providing new insight for the study of the trophic ecology of seabirds. The difference in the bulk δ15N values of northern and southern rockhopper penguins Eudyptes chrysocome ssp. was due to both a difference in their foraging location (different δ15N phe) and their trophic levels (different Δδ15Nglu-phe). The δ15N phe values of king Aptenodytes patagonicus and Adélie penguins Pygoscelis adeliae were higher than those of rockhoppers, which could reflect a foraging on mesopelagic prey for king penguins and, in the highly productive Antarctic shelf waters, for Adelie penguins. The Δδ15Nglu-phe accurately reflected the relative trophic level of penguins, but further work is required to determine the trophic enrichment factors for compound-specific isotope analysis.

14/287: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactoftrophicinteractionsonproductionfunctionsandontheecosystemresponsetofishingasimulationapproach> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Impact of trophic interactions on production functions and on the ecosystem response to fishing: a simulation approach
A simulation model is developed to analyse the variability of production functions in all exploited virtual ecosystem. We assume that a complex food web call be represented by a set of trophic components interacting through predation. Each component has a set of recruitment, growth, and Survival models, a catch level and trophic preference function. Prey are Consumed according to their abundance and predators' trophic preference functions are estimated ill a pristine system. A parameter for the food consumption per unit biomass describes foraging for each trophic component. The FishBase database is used to parameterise some of the major processes in a generic model. A commercial fishery targets mostly high trophic levels through a set selectivity function. Some key ecosystem features are assessed in simulations: the intensity of top-down and of bottom-up controls, and the degree of trophic opportunism. Top-down control is the regulation of lower food-web components by one or several upper-levels predators. Bottom-up control is the regulation of trophic components by their prey. Results show that biological production functions are highly dependent on predation parameters and vary differently according to trophic level. Fishing activity modifies the biomass distribution between components and strongly affects higher trophic levels more sensitive to exploitation. Trophic dynamics within the system are altered through the rates of predation mortality. In systems where predation mortality is high, top-down control dominates and fishing affects all food web components. These "fishing-controlled" systems display compensatory mechanisms through a released predation control. We also show that systems where productivity is dependent on prey abundance are more "environment-controlled" and seem more sensitive to overexploitation, particularly the higher trophic levels. Trophic Opportunism tends to dampen the propagation of top-down or bottom-up controls through the food web and thus stabilizes the ecosystem. Trophic relationships are therefore essential ecosystems characteristics that determine production and response to exploitation. Their routine analysis is a key part of the ecosystem approach.

15/288: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thetrophicspectrumtheoryandapplicationasanecosystemindicator> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : The trophic spectrum: theory and application as an ecosystem indicator
Trophic spectra represent the distribution of biomass, abundance, or catch by trophic level, and may be used as indicators of the trophic structure and functioning of aquatic ecosystems in a fisheries context. As a theoretical background, we present a simple ecosystem model of biomass flow reflecting predation and ontogenetic processes. Biomass trophic spectrum of total biomass can be modelled as the result of three major factors and processes: trophic efficiency, transfer kinetics, and extent of top-down control. In the simulations, changes in the spectrum highlight fishing impacts on trophic structure and reveal some functional characteristics of the underlying ecosystem. As examples of potential applications, three case studies of trophic spectra are presented. Catch trophic spectra allow description of structural differences among European fishing areas and periods. Abundance trophic spectra of coral-reef fish assemblages display different trophic signatures, characterizing different reef habitats in New Caledonia and highlighting fishing effects in a marine protected area context. Biomass trophic spectra of demersal resources off Northwest Africa show a shift in ecosystem structure that can be attributed to the rapid increase in fishing pressure during the past few decades. Off Senegal, total biomass remained fairly constant, suggesting a strong top-down control linked to fisheries targeting high trophic level species. Off Guinea, exploitation rates are spread over a wider range of trophic levels, and the total biomass of demersal resources tended to decrease. The trophic spectrum is concluded to be a useful indicator describing and comparing systems in time and space, detecting phase shifts linked to natural or anthropogenic perturbations, and revealing differences in ecosystem functioning.

16/289: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystemparticomparingtrophiclinkagesunderlaninaandelninoconditions> : SCORE = 1.013309
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part I: Comparing trophic linkages under La Niña and El Niño conditions
The El Niño of 1997–98 was one of the strongest warming events of the past century; among many other effects, it impacted phytoplankton along the Peruvian coast by changing species composition and reducing biomass. While responses of the main fish resources to this natural perturbation are relatively well known, understanding the ecosystem response as a whole requires an ecotrophic multispecies approach. In this work, we construct trophic models of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem (NHCE) and compare the La Niña (LN) years in 1995–96 with the El Niño (EN) years in 1997–98. The model area extends from 4°S–16°S and to 60 nm from the coast. The model consists of 32 functional groups of organisms and differs from previous trophic models of the Peruvian system through: (i) division of plankton into size classes to account for EN-associated changes and feeding preferences of small pelagic fish, (ii) increased division of demersal groups and separation of life history stages of hake, (iii) inclusion of mesopelagic fish, and (iv) incorporation of the jumbo squid (Dosidicus gigas), which became abundant following EN. Results show that EN reduced the size and organization of energy flows of the NHCE, but the overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators, detritus and export) of the ecosystem was maintained. The reduction of diatom biomass during EN forced omnivorous planktivorous fish to switch to a more zooplankton-dominated diet, raising their trophic level. Consequently, in the EN model the trophic level increased for several predatory groups (mackerel, other large pelagics, sea birds, pinnipeds) and for fishery catch. A high modeled biomass of macrozooplankton was needed to balance the consumption by planktivores, especially during EN condition when observed diatoms biomass diminished dramatically. Despite overall lower planktivorous fish catches, the higher primary production required-to-catch ratio implied a stronger ecological impact of the fishery and stresses the need for precautionary management of fisheries during and after EN. During EN energetic indicators such as the lower primary production/total biomass ratio suggest a more energetically efficient ecosystem, while reduced network indicators such as the cycling index and relative ascendency indicate of a less organized state of the ecosystem. Compared to previous trophic models of the NHCE we observed: (i) a shrinking of ecosystem size in term of energy flows, (ii) slight changes in overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators and detritus), and (iii) the use of alternate pathways leading to a higher ecological impact of the fishery for planktivorous fish.



286) Recherche du mot : Scientific fishing (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/scientific_fishing)


287) Recherche du mot : Otaria flavescens (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/otaria_flavescens)


288) Recherche du mot : FUJAYRAH (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_ARE_FJR)


289) Recherche du mot : Carite lucio (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_cavalla)


290) Recherche du mot : organism (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/organism)
1/290: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/towardsendtoendmodelsforinvestigatingtheeffectsofclimateandfishinginmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Towards end-to-end models for investigating the effects of climate and fishing in marine ecosystems
End-to-end models that represent ecosystem components from primary producers to top predators, linked through trophic interactions and affected by the abiotic environment, are expected to provide valuable tools for assessing the effects of climate change and fishing on ecosystem dynamics. Here, we review the main process-based approaches used for marine ecosystem modelling, focusing on the extent of the food web modelled, the forcing factors considered, the trophic processes represented, as well as the potential use and further development of the models. We consider models of a subset of the food web, models which represent the first attempts to couple low and high trophic levels, integrated models of the whole ecosystem, and size spectrum models. Comparisons within and among these groups of models highlight the preferential use of functional groups at low trophic levels and species at higher trophic levels and the different ways in which the models account for abiotic processes. The model comparisons also highlight the importance of choosing an appropriate spatial dimension for representing organism dynamics. Many of the reviewed models could be extended by adding components and by ensuring that the full life cycles of species components are represented, but end-to-end models should provide full coverage of ecosystem components, the integration of physical and biological processes at different scales and two-way interactions between ecosystem components. We suggest that this is best achieved by coupling models, but there are very few existing cases where the coupling supports true two-way interaction. The advantages of coupling models are that the extent of discretization and representation can be targeted to the part of the food web being considered, making their development time- and cost-effective. Processes such as predation can be coupled to allow the propagation of forcing factors effects up and down the food web. However, there needs to be a stronger focus on enabling two-way interaction, carefully selecting the key functional groups and species, reconciling different time and space scales and the methods of converting between energy, nutrients and mass.



291) Recherche du mot : élément humain (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/human_element)


292) Recherche du mot : Great hammerhead (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/taractes_spp)


293) Recherche du mot : sea_surface_temperature (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sst)


294) Recherche du mot : otolith (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/otolith)
1/291: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fluctuatingasymmetryinfishotolithsandheterozygosityinstressfulestuarineenvironmentswestafrica> : SCORE = 1.0832729
Doc : Fluctuating asymmetry in fish otoliths and heterozygosity in stressful estuarine environments (West Africa)
Fluctuating asymmetry (FA) is assumed to reflect the developmental instability caused by environmental or genetic stress. Fish otoliths represent a very good tool for investigating the consequence of different effects on FA. Otolith FA analysis, coupled with genetic analysis, has been undertaken on two common West African estuarine species, Ethmalosa fimbriata (EFI) and Sarotherodon melanotheron (SME), in two neighbouring estuaries, in order to highlight the impact of salinity on developmental stability. The Gambia estuary has a normal functioning and the Saloum estuary is inverse (saltier waters in the upper river), reaching extremely high salinities (>100 psu) and constituting severe environmental stress. Five sub-populations of EFI and six of SME were studied along a salinity gradient. The differences between right and left otoliths were estimated with image processing by measuring five dimensions (area, perimeter, diameter, rostrum and posterior radii). Analyses of genetic differentiation at three EPIC and one anonymous nuclear gene loci for EFI and six polymorphic enzymatic loci for SME were carried out to measure the level of heterozygosity. Absolute FA in all otolith traits examined was unaffected by gender but increased significantly with fish size. Size-corrected absolute FA did not show any significant difference among sites differing largely in salinity, although a higher asymmetry in otolith area was recorded in the saltiest site. These findings suggest that otolith asymmetry is a poor indicator of osmotic stress. The individual heterozygosity level did not seem to have an effect on otolith FA for either species, even though a slight correlation appeared with otolith area or perimeter. Otolith FA cannot be considered to be a useful indicator for estimating changes linked with environmental or genetic stress in these estuaries.

2/292: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fasstafullyagesizeandspacetimestructuredstatisticalmodelfortheassessmentoftunapopulations> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : FASST: a fully age-size and space-time structured statistical model for the assessment of tuna populations
This paper describes the model FASST. FASST is a fully structured age, size, space and time
stock assessment model. It is expressed as a deterministic system of partial differential
equations continuous in age, size and time. Space is represented using large discrete zones
interconnected by exchange rates. All the parameterizations used to represent recruitment,
growth, mortality and movements are chosen to be size-dependent and age independent.
Consequently, for simplicity purposes, the age dimension can be simplified. The model is
integrated numerically to simulate the stock dynamics. A complex process -and observationerror
framework is used to estimate the model parameters, and hence the past stock status, in
a Bayesian context. The model uses simultaneously most fishery data currently available for
tuna stock assessment such as catch by fleet in number and weight, length-frequency samples,
otolith analysis, tag-recapture data. It provides a new way to integrate that information into a
consistent stock assessment framework.



295) Recherche du mot : shelf break (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/shelfEdge)
1/293: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hfradarobservationsofsurfacecirculationoffbodegabaynortherncaliforniausa> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : HF radar observations of surface circulation off Bodega Bay (northern California, USA)
[1] Two high-frequency radar stations (CODAR) were installed along the northern California coast in May 2001. Comparisons of radar data with acoustic Doppler current profiler ( ADCP) current data and near-surface drifter tracks indicate considerable agreement, with minimum RMS differences of order 0.05 - 0.15 m/s and average drifter-HF-radar track separation rates of 5 +/- 3 km/d. Radar data resolve the three main sources of intraseasonal current variability in the area: ( 1) upwelling/relaxation dynamics, ( 2) tidal and diurnal forcing, and ( 3) inertial currents. Subtidal fluctuations are the largest component of variability, accounting for 45 - 75% of the variance. Wind-driven dynamics are the dominant source of this subtidal variability (67% of subtidal variability). Both upwelling and relaxation periods exhibit consistent patterns of surface velocity, with nearshore currents being slower and more poleward than offshore currents, which are strongly equatorward. Analysis of tidal and inertial variability indicate that current fluctuations are polarized toward clockwise rotation and are generally weaker and more linearly polarized near the coast. M-2 tidal current ellipses switch direction of rotation at the shelf break, suggesting the presence of internal tidal waves. Currents in all frequency bands are deflected and accelerated around Pt. Reyes, and there are indications of increased current variability and changes in flow direction near Cordell Bank. The presence of considerable cross-shore and alongshore gradients in the strength and direction of surface flow patterns, and in particular weak poleward currents over the inner shelf, could have important consequences for plankton retention in the area.



296) Recherche du mot : Echeneis naucrates (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/echeneis_naucrates)


297) Recherche du mot : Taractichthys longipinnis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/taractichthys_longipinnis)


298) Recherche du mot : trait écologique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ecological_trait)


299) Recherche du mot : Aptenodytes patagonicus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/aptenodytes_patagonicus)
1/294: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/nitrogenandcarbonisotopevaluesofindividualaminoacidsatooltostudyforagingecologyofpenguinsinthesouthernocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Nitrogen and carbon isotope values of individual amino acids: a tool to study foraging ecology of penguins in the Southern Ocean
We determined the δ15N and δ13C values of individual amino acids (AAs) isolated from chick blood of 4 penguin species that forage in different oceanic regions (from the subtropics of the Indian Ocean to Antarctica) to test if: (1) the δ15N values of phenylalanine (δ15N phe) revealed different foraging areas among the species; (2) the difference between glutamic acid and phenylalanine δ15N values (Δδ15Nglu-phe) accurately predicted trophic levels; and (3) the δ13C value of AAs could resolve species foraging locations, similar to bulk δ13C values. The δ13C values of all AAs decreased with latitude, were positively correlated with bulk δ13C data, and, therefore, tracked the isotopic baseline. However, we were not able to discern additional ecological information from these δ13C values. In contrast, the δ15N values of AAs distinguished the isotopic value of the nitrogen at the base of the food web from the trophic level of the consumer, providing new insight for the study of the trophic ecology of seabirds. The difference in the bulk δ15N values of northern and southern rockhopper penguins Eudyptes chrysocome ssp. was due to both a difference in their foraging location (different δ15N phe) and their trophic levels (different Δδ15Nglu-phe). The δ15N phe values of king Aptenodytes patagonicus and Adélie penguins Pygoscelis adeliae were higher than those of rockhoppers, which could reflect a foraging on mesopelagic prey for king penguins and, in the highly productive Antarctic shelf waters, for Adelie penguins. The Δδ15Nglu-phe accurately reflected the relative trophic level of penguins, but further work is required to determine the trophic enrichment factors for compound-specific isotope analysis.



300) Recherche du mot : Indo-Pacific sailfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/istiophorus_platypterus)


301) Recherche du mot : Charybdis smithii (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/charybdis_smithii)
1/295: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/roleofpelagiccrustaceansinthedietofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxintheseychelleswaters> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) in the Seychelles waters
The role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox was investigated from stomach content analysis of fish collected in the waters surrounding the Seychelles Archipelago in the western Indian Ocean. Crustaceans accounted for 88.4% by prey number and 73.7% by reconstituted mass during the South-West monsoon season. During the North-East monsoon season, crustaceans remained the main prey group and accounted for 63.7% by prey number and 46% by reconstituted mass. There was a clear seasonal pattern with the portunid crab Charybdis smithii predominating during the South-West monsoon season and the pelagic stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris during the North-East monsoon season. This pattern likely reflects variations in prey availability linked to current movements around the Seychelles Archipelago. Most of the prey consisted of slow-swimming and small individuals, which occur in dense swarms during the pelagic phase of their life history. The dietary trends of lancetfish are consistent with opportunistic feeding on the most abundant prey. They exploit short food chains based on carnivorous crustaceans, and play an important role in the pelagic trophic functioning of the western Indian Ocean.

2/296: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/theswimmingcrabcharybdissmithiidistributionbiologyandtrophicroleinthepelagicecosystemofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : The swimming crab Charybdis smithii: distribution, biology and trophic role in the pelagic ecosystem of the western Indian Ocean
Surface ‘‘swarms'' of the swimming crabs Charybdis smithii are still considered as an unusual phenomenon in the open Indian Ocean, although their dense pelagic aggregations were already reported in waters off the Indian coast and in the northern Arabian Sea. Based on an extensive large-scale data series taken over 45 years, we demonstrate that C. smithii is common in the pelagic provinces of the western Indian Ocean driven by the wind monsoon regime. Swimming crabs are dispersed by the monsoon currents throughout the equatorial Indian Ocean.They aggregate at night in the upper 150-m layer, where their estimated biomass derived from pelagic trawling data can exceed 130 kg km-2. Abundance of C. smithii can reach >15,000 ind. km-2 in July (i.e. the peak of the southwest monsoon), declines by 50-fold in March and is negligible in May. C. smithii is an important prey for more than 30 species of abundant epipelagic top predators. In turn, it feeds on mesopelagic species. This swimming crab is a major species of the intermediate trophic levels and represents a crucial seasonal trophic link in the open ocean ecosystem of the western Indian Ocean. Outbursts in pelagic waters of huge biomasses of ordinarily benthic crustaceans (C. smithii and Natosquilla investigatoris) are a remarkable feature of the Indian Ocean, although similar, but smaller, events are reported in the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.

3/297: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityinconspecificpredationamonglongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Variability in conspecific predation among longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox in the western Indian Ocean
Conspecific predation among longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox was investigated in four spatio-temporal strate of the western Indian Ocean. The cannibalism level varied from 0 to 45.5% by frequency of occurrence and was negatively related with abundance of non-evasive prey (such as crustaceans Charybdis smithii and Natosquilla investigatoris) and foraging success. Predation by lancetfish is often described as a non-selective process, constrained by local prey availability and by its feeding speed during an attack of prey. Our results show that lancetfish may adapt its opportunistic foraging behavior, feeding on non-conspecific abundant prey such as crustaceans when available, and switching to a high level of conspecific predation in poor waters.

4/298: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragefaunainthedietofthreelargepelagicfishlancetfishswordfishandyellowfintunainthewesternequatorialindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Forage fauna in the diet of three large pelagic fish (lancetfish, swordfish and yellowfin tuna) in the western equatorial Indian Ocean
Prey composition and resource partitioning were investigated among three large pelagic fish predators, yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox), in a poorly known oceanic area, the western Indian Ocean. The contents of 380 non-empty stomachs were analysed from specimens caught with longlines during scientific cruises carried out from 2001 to 2003. Diet data were processed by occurrence, mean proportion by number, wet weight, and mean proportion by reconstituted weight. Crustaceans, dominated by the swimming crab Charybdis smithii and the stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris, were the major food source of lancetfish. Cannibalism was also significant for that species. Yellowfin tunas preyed upon a large diversity of mesopelagic fishes, crustaceans (C. smithii and crab larvae) and cephalopods (the ommastrephid Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis). Mesopelagic fishes (Cubiceps pauciradiatus and Diretmoides parini) and cephalopods (mainly S. oualaniensis) were the main prey of swordfish. Diet overlap between swordfish and yellowfin tuna was evidenced by high Morisita-Horn index. But the feeding habits of these three predators differed by foraging depth and prey size, with swordfish feeding at deeper depths and on larger prey than the more epipelagic lancetfish and yellowfin tuna. Using these three predators as biological samplers, the present study provides novel data on micronekton fauna that is poorly documented in the western Indian Ocean: 67 families and 84 species of prey were recovered in the stomach contents, and our results indicate the presence of large resources of pelagic crustaceans that play a primary role in the epipelagic food chain.



302) Recherche du mot : detection gear (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/detection_gear)


303) Recherche du mot : Sphyraena barracuda (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyraena_barracuda)


304) Recherche du mot : borderland (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/borderland)


305) Recherche du mot : Poulp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/Octopus_vulgaris)


306) Recherche du mot : aggregate biotic-abiotic entity (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/aggregateBioticAbioticEntity)


307) Recherche du mot : Bonitou (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/katsuwonus_pelamis)


308) Recherche du mot : Canal du Mozambique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mozambiqueChannel)
1/299: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deladynamiqueoceaniquemesoechelleauxpredateursmarinslecanaldumozambiquecommecasdecole> : SCORE = 4.9132648
Doc : De la dynamique océanique méso-échelle aux prédateurs marins : le Canal du Mozambique comme cas d'école




309) Recherche du mot : Diaphus anderseni (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diaphus_anderseni)


310) Recherche du mot : Charybdis edwardsii (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/charybdis_smithii)


311) Recherche du mot : Ommastrephidae spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ommastrephidae_spp)


312) Recherche du mot : indicateur (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/indicator)


313) Recherche du mot : Walvitethis rancureli (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/walvitethis_rancureli)


314) Recherche du mot : Dasyatis violacea (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/dasyatis_violacea)


315) Recherche du mot : Thon à nageoires noires (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_atlanticus)


316) Recherche du mot : intra specific interaction (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/intraSpecificInteraction)


317) Recherche du mot : Und Fish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/und_fish)


318) Recherche du mot : bateau (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/vessel)


319) Recherche du mot : Via Avenir (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/via_avenir)


320) Recherche du mot : Mola mola (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mola_mola)


321) Recherche du mot : PHUKET (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_THA_HKT)


322) Recherche du mot : pêche à la senne (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seine)


323) Recherche du mot : promontoire (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/promontory)


324) Recherche du mot : Gestion des ressources marines (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/marine_resources_management)


325) Recherche du mot : Diogenichtys atlanticus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diogenichtys_atlanticus)


326) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus melanopterus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_melanopterus)


327) Recherche du mot : Longfin escolar (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scombrolabrax_heterolepis)


328) Recherche du mot : Président Lacour (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/president_Lacour)


329) Recherche du mot : sharptail mola (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/masturus_lanceolatus)


330) Recherche du mot : Lysiosquilla tredecimendata (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lysiosquilla_tredecimendata)


331) Recherche du mot : Chinchards, carangues nca (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/caranx_sp)


332) Recherche du mot : pic (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/peak)


333) Recherche du mot : haut-fond (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/shoal)


334) Recherche du mot : Sierra (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thyrsites_atun)


335) Recherche du mot : Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer-EOS (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/amsre)


336) Recherche du mot : Ruvettus pretiosus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ruvettus_pretiosus)


337) Recherche du mot : Minimum capture length (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/minimal_capture_length)


338) Recherche du mot : MOMBASA (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_KEN_MBA)


339) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus isodon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_isodon)


340) Recherche du mot : Tropical two-wing flyingfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/exocoetus_volitans)


341) Recherche du mot : sondeur lateral (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/sondeur_lateral)


342) Recherche du mot : Schedophilus ovalis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/schedophilus_ovalis)


343) Recherche du mot : Statistics (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/statistics)
1/300: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/transitivegeostatisticsandstatisticsperindividualarelevantframeworkforassessingresourceswithdiffuselimits> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Transitive geostatistics and statistics per individual: a relevant framework for assessing resources with diffuse limits
When assessing marine resources, inferring spatial models has to be performed from
a unique realisation. The situations with repetitive surveys that can be considered
as repetition of the same regionalized variable are (obviously) rare. In intrinsic
geostatistics, this question is usuallysolv ed bya couple of keyassumptions namely
stationarityand ergodicity. Unfortunately, these assumptions and their consequences
are often too strong with regards to the realityof fish surveydata. It is especially
unrealistic to assume that the spatial structure is independent from the geometry
of field.
Transitive geostatistics has proven to be an operational alternative to intrinsic
geostatistics and was the seed for the development of a framework called ”statistics
per individual”. This article presents the rationale of the approach and sketches
the main tools developed during the past few years with practical illustrations.
Statistics per individual have the advantage to be simple and thus more robust
than intrinsic approaches (robust in the sense that the properties of the estimator
are based on fewer and checkable assumptions). On the one hand, ”statistics per
individual” allow for summarizing and describing series of spatial distributions into
few quantitative features. On the other hand, as developed in the first ages of
geostatistics, theyallo w for estimating global abundance with estimation variance
thanks to the (transitive) covariogram and for interpolating between observations
(transitive kriging). The price to payfor the simplicityof the method is that it leads
to fewer possible applications than the intrinsic geostatistical approaches and that,
as a design based approach, it is constrained to some specific sampling schemes (e.g.
the regular, stratified regular or point process surveystrategies).

2/301: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/frenchpurseseinetunafisheriesstatisticsintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : French purse-seine tuna fisheries statistics in the Indian Ocean, 1981-2005
This document presents a summary of the main general French purse-seiners activities in
the Indian Ocean since 1981: effort, catch by species and fishing type (log and free
swimming schools), catch per unit of effort, sampling and mean weights for the main species.

3/302: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/frenchpurseseinetunafisheriesstatisticsintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : French purse-seine tuna fisheries statistics in the Indian Ocean, 1981-2005
This document presents a summary of the main general French purse-seiners activities in
the Indian Ocean since 1981: effort, catch by species and fishing type (log and free
swimming schools), catch per unit of effort, sampling and mean weights for the main species.

4/303: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/krigingofthelatentprobabilityofabinomialvariableapplicationtofishstatistics> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Kriging of the latent probability of a binomial variable: application to fish statistics
The tropical tuna purse seine fishery is characterised by two fishing modes: one on free swimming tuna schools and one on schools associated with Fish Aggregating Devices (FAD). Our purpose is thus to understand how the two fishing modes are spatially distributed in the Indian Ocean and how this distribution has changed over the seasons and the years. Conditional on the latent probability that a set could be realized on a FAD, the number of sets on FAD was considered as independent Binomial random variables. Such a hierarchical model allows reducing the instabilities encountered when working on empirical ratios based on few observations. We discussed the connections with “kriging with measurement errors” and, the determination of the mean and the variance of the latent variable. The use of 22 years of fishing statistics (1985 – 2006) indicated a small year to year variability between variograms of the latent variable. A single model was thus used to krige the probability for fishing sets to be on log school. The time series of the kriging maps highlighted areas of systematic large probability of the second fishing mode which was consistent with expert knowledge but question the stationarity assumption made on the latent variable.

5/304: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/zooplanktonandforagefishspeciesoffperulargescalebottomupforcingandlocalscaledepletion> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Zooplankton and forage fish species off Peru: large-scale bottom-up forcing and local-scale depletion
The Humboldt Current System, like all upwelling systems, has dramatic quantities of plankton-feeding fish, which suggested that their population dynamics may ‘drive' or ‘control' ecosystem dynamics. With this in mind we analysed the relationship between forage fish populations and their main prey, zooplankton populations. Our study combined a zooplankton sampling program (1961–2005) with simultaneous acoustic observations on fish from 40 pelagic surveys (1983–2005) conducted by the Peruvian Marine Research Institute (IMARPE) and landing statistics for anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) along the Peruvian coast from 1961 to 2005. The multi-year trend of anchoveta population abundance varied consistently with zooplankton biovolume trend, suggesting bottom-up control on anchovy at the population scale (since oceanographic conditions and phytoplankton production support the changes in zooplankton abundance). For a finer-scale analysis (km) we statistically modelled zooplankton biovolume as a function of geographical (latitude and distance from the 200-m isobath), environmental (sea surface temperature), temporal (year, month and time-of-day) and biological (acoustic anchovy and sardine biomass within 5 km of each zooplankton sample) covariates over all survey using both classification and regression trees (CART) and generalized additive models (GAM). CART showed local anchoveta density to have the strongest effect on zooplankton biovolume, with significantly reduced levels of biovolume for higher neighbourhood anchoveta biomass. Additionally, zooplankton biovolume was higher offshore than on the shelf. GAM results corroborated the CART findings, also showing a clear diel effect on zooplankton biovolume, probably due to diel migration or daytime net avoidance. Apparently, the observed multi-year population scale bottom-up control is not inconsistent with local depletion of zooplankton when anchoveta are locally abundant, since the latter effect was observed over a wide range of overall anchoveta abundance.

6/305: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/athreedimensionalapproachtoschooltypologyusingverticalscanningmultibeamsonar> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : A three-dimensional approach to school typology using vertical scanning multibeam sonar
Fish school typology is usually based on vertical echosounding images. These images provide little objective information on school structure (internal characteristics) or morphology (external characteristics). This paper considers the possibility of using multibeam sonar for 3D recording of the external morphology and internal structure of schools, to enhance the identification of typological criteria. We used recordings of 668 schools obtained from three different regions (Senegal, 68; Venezuela, 343; Mexico, 257) on two different Clupeids (Venezuela and Senegal: Sardinella aurita; Mexico: Sardinops sagax). We extracted 26 parameters (4 geographical; 6 morphological; 16 structural) from each school in the data base, using geostatistics and 3D image-reconstruction software. The schools were very homogeneous in most of their characteristics, presenting unimodal distributions of most parameters. Structural variables presented a higher power of discrimination (significant differences among zones, species and positions in the water column) than morphological ones. Multivariate statistics (principal component analysis followed by mixed hierarchical classification) allowed the definition of four main classes of schools. The conclusion is that the structural data provided by multibeam sonar improves the possibility of obtaining a consistent typology.

7/306: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climaticoscillationsandtunacatchratesintheindianoceanawaveletapproachtotimeseriesanalysis> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Climatic oscillations and tuna catch rates in the Indian Ocean: a wavelet approach to time series analysis
We analysed the influence of climatic oscillations
[based on the Indian Oscillation Index (IOI)] on
monthly catch rates of two tropical tuna species in
the equatorial Indian Ocean. We carried out wavelet
analysis, an efficient method of time series analysis
to study non-stationary data. Catch per unit of effort
(CPUE) of bigeye tuna was computed from Japanese
longline statistics from 1955 to 2002 in the equatorial
Indian Ocean and CPUE of yellowfin tuna
was derived from industrial purse seine statistics
from 1984 to 2003 in the Western Indian Ocean.
Wavelet analyses allowed us to quantify both the
pattern of variability in the time series and nonstationary
associations between tuna and climatic
signals. Phase analyses were carried out to investigate
dependency between the two signals. We
reported strong associations between tuna and
climate series for the 4- and 5-yr periodic modes, i.e.
the periodic band of the El Nin˜o Southern Oscillation
signal propagation in the Indian Ocean.
These associations were non-stationary, evidenced
from 1970 to 1990 for bigeye, and from 1984 to
1991 and then from 1993 to 2001 for yellowfin.
Warm episodes (low negative IOI values) matched
increases of longline catch rates of bigeye during the
1970–1990 time frame, whereas the strong 1997–
1998 warm event matched a decrease of purse seine
catch rates of yellowfin. We discussed these results
in terms of changes in catchability for purse seine
and longline.

8/307: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/areviewofanalyticalapproachestoinvestigateseabirdenvironmentinteractions> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : A review of analytical approaches to investigate seabird-environment interactions
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution, and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In this paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour, and their environment in order to assess current trends, weaknesses, and future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated; and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where in most cases no behavioral information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. A vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird-environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, meso-scale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modeling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multi-scale, and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

9/308: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somestatisticsformeasuringlargescalestructure> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Some Statistics for Measuring Large Scale Structure
Good statistics for measuring large-scale structure in the Universe must be able to distinguish between different models of structure formation. In this paper, two and three dimensional ``counts in cell" statistics and a new ``discrete genus statistic" are applied to toy versions of several popular theories of structure formation: random phase cold dark matter model, cosmic string models, and global texture scenario. All three statistics appear quite promising in terms of differentiating between the models.

10/309: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactsofkelvinwaveforcingintheperuhumboldtcurrentsystemscenariosofspatialreorganizationsfromphysicstofishers> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Impacts of Kelvin wave forcing in the Peru Humboldt Current system: Scenarios of spatial reorganizations from physics to fishers
Because climate change challenges the sustainability of important fish populations and the fisheries they support, we need to understand how large scale climatic forcing affects the functioning of marine ecosystems. In the Humboldt Current system (HCS), a main driver of climatic variability is coastally-trapped Kelvin waves (KWs), themselves originating as oceanic equatorial KWs. Here we (i) describe the spatial reorganizations of living organisms in the Humboldt coastal system as affected by oceanic KWs forcing, (ii) quantify the strength of the interactions between the physical and biological component dynamics of the system, (iii) formulate hypotheses on the processes which drive the redistributions of the organisms, and (iv) build scenarios of space occupation in the HCS under varying KW forcing. To address these questions we explore, through bivariate lagged correlations and multivariate statistics, the relationships between time series of oceanic KW amplitude (TAO mooring data and model-resolved baroclinic modes) and coastal Peruvian oceanographic data (SST, coastal upwelled waters extent), anchoveta spatial distribution (mean distance to the coast, spatial concentration of the biomass, mean depth of the schools), and fishing fleet statistics (trip duration, searching duration, number of fishing sets and catch per trip, features of the foraging trajectory as observed by satellite vessel monitoring system). Data sets span all or part of January 1983 to September 2006. The results show that the effects of oceanic KW forcing are significant in all the components of the coastal ecosystem, from oceanography to the behaviour of the top predators – fishers. This result provides evidence for a bottom-up transfer of the behaviours and spatial stucturing through the ecosystem. We propose that contrasting scenarios develop during the passage of upwelling versus downwelling KWs. From a predictive point of view, we show that KW amplitudes observed in the mid-Pacific can be used to forecast which system state will dominate the HCS over the next 2–6 months. Such predictions should be integrated in the Peruvian adaptive fishery management.

11/310: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/scrstowardsclearandfirmiccatreportsonatlanticbluefintunastocksanopenlettertothebluefingroupandtothescrs> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : SCRS 2006: Towards clear and firm ICCAT reports on Atlantic bluefin tuna stocks? An open letter to the bluefin group and to the SCRS
This paper is based on the fact that the recent SCRS reports on bluefin tuna are not very clear
to show the gravity of the ICCAT problems in its statistics, research and assessment for this
species. The Atlantic bluefin population is now probably facing in the short or medium terms a
high risk of potentially irreversible over-fishing. However this severe risk is not clearly visible
in the recent SCRS analysis because of the difficulties to run a realistic stock assessment on
these stocks when most of the basic data are missing. This paper makes a recommendation that
SCRS should write its bluefin report using a non standard specific format using well selected
indicators and not its traditional VPA. This SCRS report should also show the serious
conservation risks presently faced by bluefin in the Atlantic. This paper also reaches conclusion
that a precautionary approach should be developed by SCRS in order to make firm
management recommendations that are need to conserve bluefin tuna.

12/311: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteontheyearlycatchesbycountryandgearofthefismfranceivorycoastsenegalmoroccofleetduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 1.0637529
Doc : Note on the yearly catches by country and gear of the FISM (France - Ivory Coast - Senegal - Morocco) fleet during the 1969-1990 period
The current ICCAT Task 1 statistics database does not include any record of catch for Senegal and Ivory Coast during the period 1969-1990 as these data were historically included in the aggregated catch data of the so-called “FISM” fleet under the flag ‘EC.France'. Landing and logbook data were used to reallocate the FISM fleet catch between countries. This analysis shows the need to clarify the Task 1 ICCAT statistics by country and historic gear, and ask France, Ivory Coast and Senegal to declare their respective catch during 1969-1990. This change in the ICCAT database will not affect the total catch of Task 1 statistics.

13/312: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

14/313: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/scaleinvariantmovementsoffishermenthesameforagingstrategyasnaturalpredators> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Scale invariant movements of fishermen: the same foraging strategy as natural predators
We analyzed the movement of fishing vessels during fishing trips in order to understand how fishermen behave in space while searching for fish. For that purpose we used hourly geo-referenced positions of vessels, provided by a satellite vessel monitoring system, for the entire industrial fleet (809 vessels) of the world's largest single species fishery (Peruvian anchovy, Engraulis ringens) from December 1999 to March 2003. Observed trajectories of fishing vessels are well modeled by Lévy random walks, suggesting that fishermen use a stochastic search strategy which conforms to the same search statistics as non-human predators. We show that human skills (technology, communication, or others) do not result in the fishermen's spatial behavior being fundamentally different from that of animal predators. With respect to probability of prey encounter, our results suggest that fishermen, on average, evolved an optimal movement pattern (μ = 2.00) among the family of Lévy random walks. This Lagrangian approach opens several perspectives in terms of operational management of the pelagic fish stock.

15/314: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/catchandeffortdataonsoviettunapurseseinefisheriesintheindianoceanbasedondailyradioreportsdatabase> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Catch and effort data on Soviet tuna purse seine fisheries in the Indian Ocean based on daily radio reports database.
General description of YugNIRO database on Soviet tuna purse seine fisheries in the Indian Ocean is presented. Principal sources of the information for database were daily radio reports on operations and on catch composition of purse seiners. Vessel types, temporal schedule of its activities, total catch and data quality, database structure is described. This paper is a supplement for a fine-scale (1-degree/month) catch statistics and activities dataset, presented to IOTC Secretariat.

16/315: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteuponthehistoricalstandardisedfishingeffortsinthefisandfrenchpurseseinetaskstatisticsthathavebeenroutinelysubmittedtotheiccatsecretariatduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Note upon the historical standardised fishing efforts in the FIS and French purse seine task2 statistics that have been routinely submitted to the ICCAT secretariat during the 1969-2005 period
This paper examine the types of fishing efforts that have been submitted since 1969 to the
ICCAT Secretariat for the French fleet of purse seiners, as well for the Senegalese, Ivorian and
Moroccan purse seiners. This analyzes confirms that the effort data submitted to the ICCAT
during the period 1969 to now are heterogeneous over time. This document explains why the
fishing efforts of the 1969-1979 period cannot be modified or corrected or re-estimated. It also
recommends that all fishing efforts since 1980 should be well normalized and resubmitted to the
ICCAT, and using various units of fishing effort. Various potential types of fishing efforts that
could be used for this revision of the historical Task 2 statistics are presented and submitted to
the ICCAT Tropical Tunas Species Group before doing this revision. The historical
stratification between small and large purse seiners should be kept. The document also
analyzes the statistical problems linked to the mixture of four flags in the historical so called
FISM fleet. The recommendation is that all task1 and task2 purse seine statistics at least since
1980 and possibly since 1969 should preferably be broken into the corresponding catch and
effort statistics of each flag.

17/316: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thedevelopmentofanoperationalmodelandsimulationprocedurefortestinguncertaintiesintheatlanticbigeyethunnusobesusstockassessment> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : The development of an operational model and simulation procedure for testing uncertainties in the Atlantic Bigeye (Thunnus obesus) stock assessment
Atlantic bigeye is a highly migratory species widely distributed through the whole Atlantic.
Recent assessments conducted by the ICCAT SCRS are highly uncertain due to the large
uncertainties in biological parameters, such as M, as well as in fishery statistics (e.g., IUU
fleets, juvenile catch) or abundance indexes. Similar uncertainties can be found in the Indian or
Pacific stocks. The development of an operational model has been recommended by different
regional fishery organizations as a good approach to investigate the sensitivity of the
assessment results to the uncertainties in the different inputs. This document presents an
operational model for the Atlantic bigeye as part of a simulation framework that will allow the
performance of management strategies based on current and improved biological knowledge
and management procedures to be evaluated.

18/317: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analyticalapproachestoinvestigatingseabirdenvironmentinteractionsareview> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Analytical approaches to investigating seabird–environment interactions: a review
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In the present paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour and their environment, in order to assess current trends, weaknesses and the future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where, in most cases, no behavioural information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. The vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas a few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird–environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, mesoscale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modelling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multiscale and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

19/318: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingfishpopulationmovementsfromanindividualbasedrepresentationtoanadvectiondiffusionequation> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Modeling fish population movements: From an individual-based representation to an advection–diffusion equation
In this paper, we address the problem of modeling fish population movements. We first consider a description of movements at the level of individuals. An individual-based model is formulated as a biased random walk model in which the velocity of each fish has both a deterministic and a stochastic component. These components are function of a habitat suitability index, h, and its spatial gradient backward differenceh. We derive an advection–diffusion partial differential equation (PDE) which approximates this individual-based model (IBM). The approximation process enables us to obtain a mechanistic representation of the advection and diffusion coefficients which improves the heuristic approaches of former studies. Advection and diffusion are linked and exhibit antagonistic behaviors: strong advection goes with weak diffusion leading to a directed movement of fish. On the contrary weak advection goes with strong diffusion corresponding to a searching behavior. Simulations are conducted for both models which are compared by computing spatial statistics. It is shown that the PDE model is a good approximation to the IBM.

20/319: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ameliorationdesdonneesstatistiquesdelapechethonieredanslazonedelatlantiqueesttropical> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Amélioration des données statistiques de la pêche thonière dans la zone de l'Atlantique Est Tropical
This paper presents the results of the Regional Workshop for the improvement of the statistics
relevant to ICCAT in the costal countries of the central area of Africa. The Workshop was held
in Senegal in 2006 and was financed by the JDIP.

21/320: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acousticdatacollectedduringandbetweenbottomtrawlstationsconsistencyandcommontrends> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Acoustic data collected during and between bottom trawl stations: consistency and common trends
Acoustic data are often collected during bottom trawl surveys. Their use can potentially improve the precision and accuracy of fish abundance estimates if acoustic data collected between trawl stations are consistent with those collected during trawling operations. This question is addressed here through the analysis of 20 bottom trawl surveys (three survey areas and five different survey series) with coincident acoustic measurements during and between trawl stations. Firstly, on-station and underway acoustic data were compared using statistics computed globally over each survey (average vertical profiles, global indices of collocations, and spatial structures) for various combinations of depth layers. Secondly, we focussed on underway acoustic data recorded in the vicinity of stations, distinguishing between data recorded before and after the tows. On-station and underway acoustic data were highly consistent, and no systematic perturbation of the acoustic sign due to the presence of the gear a few hundred metres behind the vessel was observed.



344) Recherche du mot : Yellow boxfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ostracion_cubicus)


345) Recherche du mot : Ctenopteryx sicula (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ctenopteryx_sicula)


346) Recherche du mot : équipage (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/crew)


347) Recherche du mot : Naucrates ductor (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/naucrates_ductor)


348) Recherche du mot : Carites, sin clasificar (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_sp)


349) Recherche du mot : Carangidae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carangidae)


350) Recherche du mot : Pastenague violette (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/dasyatis_violacea)


351) Recherche du mot : fracture zone (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fracture_zone)


352) Recherche du mot : observatoire océanique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ocean_observatory)


353) Recherche du mot : Thunnus spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_spp)


354) Recherche du mot : Coryphaena spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/coryphaena_spp)


355) Recherche du mot : Bonite à gros yeux (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/gymnosarda_unicolor)


356) Recherche du mot : Draco (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/draco)


357) Recherche du mot : ecosystem element (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/element)


358) Recherche du mot : Lagocephalus lagocephalus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lagocephalus_lagocephalus)


359) Recherche du mot : Uranoscopus spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/uranoscopus_spp)


360) Recherche du mot : Stingrays nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/dasyatis_spp)


361) Recherche du mot : Management tool (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/management_tool)
1/321: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fishlifehistoriesandmarineprotectedareasanoddcouple> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Fish life histories and marine protected areas: an odd couple?
ABSTRACT: Though marine protected areas (MPAs) have recently become a central element of many marine resource management plans, the potentially negative effects of MPAs for fisheries harvests remain the major impediment to their use. Understanding population responses to implementation of MPAs, and their consequences for harvests, is essential to assessing the value of MPAs as a management tool. Here I use a simple model to link what we know best about marine species, namely how fast they grow and how much they reproduce, with what we want to know, namely what will be the effects of spatial management efforts. Specifically, I show that whether maximum sustainable yield (MSY) or yield at fixed total recruitment increases with MPAs can be determined by an intuitive equation comparing the change in average individual biomass (i.e. harvestable material) with the change in individual lifetime reproduction due to increasing reserve area. Application of this model to different population structures demonstrates that initial MPA results indicating MSY would be unchanged with reserves for species with simple life-histories do not hold up for species for which biomass, reproduction or mortality vary with age. This explains many negative MPA results from age-structured models of optimally exploited species. On the other hand, the model predicts that species harvested later in life, and which begin reproduction after first harvest, may benefit from MPAs. Nevertheless, for these increases to occur, the age at first reproduction must in general be a considerable time after the age at first harvest.

2/322: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/tunamanagementandclosedareas> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Tuna management and closed areas
This document discusses the potential use of marine protected areas as a management tool for
tuna fisheries and for the conservation of offshore marine pelagic ecosystems. Its conclusion is
in favour of creating well selected and large MPAs, as they should have a positive impact in
both fields of conservation and investigations upon the functioning of pelagic ecosystem. The
major uncertainties faced in the choice of these potential MPAs are discussed. The movement
patterns of tunas and of fishing fleets in relation with these MPAs are among the major
uncertainties examined. The paper reviews the factors that should be studied in the choice of
these MPAs and a set of potential MPAs are proposed as a basis for discussion. The
recommendation is that at least these prospects should be discussed by the various tuna RFOs,
preferably in a join forum.



362) Recherche du mot : Macarela salmón (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/elagatis_bipinnulata)


363) Recherche du mot : Terra (EOS AM) Satellite (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/terra)


364) Recherche du mot : TMI (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tmi)


365) Recherche du mot : rebord (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/shelfEdge)


366) Recherche du mot : Sargocentron sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sargocentron_sp)


367) Recherche du mot : Océano Pacífico (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pacificOcean)


368) Recherche du mot : Carita oeste africano (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_tritor)


369) Recherche du mot : Amsterdam albatross (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diomedea_amsterdamensis)


370) Recherche du mot : Platyscelus ovoides (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/platyscelus_ovoides)


371) Recherche du mot : Zorro (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alopias_vulpinus)


372) Recherche du mot : loi (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/law)


373) Recherche du mot : Canaria ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/canaria_ecosystem)


374) Recherche du mot : Activité scientifique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/scientific_activity)


375) Recherche du mot : Serranidae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/serranidae)


376) Recherche du mot : Lethrinus harak (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lethrinus_harak)


377) Recherche du mot : cône (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fan)


378) Recherche du mot : Diodon sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diodon_sp)


379) Recherche du mot : gleure (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/gleure)


380) Recherche du mot : ocean observatory (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ocean_observatory)


381) Recherche du mot : Yellowtail scad (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_sp)


382) Recherche du mot : Pez vela del Indo-Pacífico (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/istiophorus_platypterus)


383) Recherche du mot : Abidjan Harbour, Ivory coast (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/abidjanHarbour)


384) Recherche du mot : albacan (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/albacan)


385) Recherche du mot : POINTE NOIRE (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_COG_PNR)


386) Recherche du mot : Scomberomorus tritor (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_tritor)


387) Recherche du mot : Stargazers (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/epinephelus_longispinis)


388) Recherche du mot : Uraspis secunda (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/uraspis_secunda)


389) Recherche du mot : Streaked seerfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_lineolatus)


390) Recherche du mot : cetacean (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/cetacean)


391) Recherche du mot : Acanthocybium solandri (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/acanthocybium_solandri)
1/323: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mercurycontentincommercialpelagicfishanditsriskassessmentinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Mercury content in commercial pelagic fish and its risk assessment in the Western Indian Ocean
As top predators of pelagic food webs, large fish naturally bioaccumulate mercury (Hg). Determining Hg burdens in commercialized fish is essential considering the concern about effects of contaminants on human health and the legal thresholds that are therefore set for local consumption and/or exportation. Total Hg levels were measured in the muscular tissue of 183 fish of five commercially important species from the tropical zone of the Western Indian Ocean. All individuals were measured and sexed in order to study the impregnation of Hg with size and sex within each species. Values of Hg found in this part of the Indian Ocean were comparable to Hg in muscular tissue of the same species studied in other areas. The highest Hg levels were noted in Swordfish (Xiphias gladius) caught in waters surrounding Reunion Island (3.97 ± 2.67 μg.g−1 dry weight). Following the Swordfish, in decreasing order of Hg content, were the Yellowfin Tuna (Thunnus albacares) and the Skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), then the Common Dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) and the Wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri ). In the North of the Mozambique Channel, Swordfish had higher Hg levels than Yellowfin Tunas, and Dolphinfish exhibited intermediate Hg levels. The size of a fish was a determinating factor of its Hg burden, as was the species. Differences in size-normalized Hg levels were observed between the two study zones for Swordfish and Common Dolphinfish. Sex, in contrast, did not influence Hg levels suggesting that females and males have similar feeding habits. The muscular Hg levels presented here suggest that consumers of fish originating from theWestern Indian Ocean should limit themselves to one Swordfish based meal per week, or one fish meal a day if they choose to eat tuna or Common Dolphinfish.

2/324: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

3/325: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingfishcommunitiesassociatedwithdriftingfishaggregatingdevicesfadsinthewesternindianoceanusingunderwatervisualsurveys> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Characterizing fish communities associated with drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean using underwater visual surveys
We adapted a visual census method, mainly used in demersal and reef fish studies, to characterize fish communities associated to drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean. Drifting FAD associated fishes from both equatorial (Seychelles) and tropical waters (Reunion Island) were examined by divers. A total of 32 species (belonging to 16 families) were observed associated with drifting FADs in equatorial waters, and 24 species (14 families) were found around FADs in tropical waters. Twenty species were found in both regions. The highest number of species observed at a single FAD was 18 (12 ± 2, mean ± SD) in equatorial and 13 (10 ± 3) in tropical waters, not counting circumnatant species loosely associated with the FAD. Some species like Kyphosus vaigiensis, Canthidermis maculata, Elagatis bipinnulata, Acanthocybium solandri and Coryphaena hippurus were observed on all or most of the surveys. In this study, the contribution in biomass of the 18 common species associated with drifting FADs (but excluding circumnatant species), represents more than 98% of the biomass. The overall biomass values of closely associated species remains well below tuna biomass estimates for circumnatant tuna schools at FADs, estimated as high as 200 tons. The species that most significantly contribute to the by-catch in tuna purse-seines logically match those that showing the highest biomass values in our surveys (Carcharhinus spp., Elagatis bipinnulata, Coryphaena hippurus, Canthidermis maculata, and Acanthocybium solandri). One of the most abundant and ubiquitous species in our study was the spotted oceanic triggerfish Canthidermis maculata that sometimes formed massive schools of many thousands individuals around the drifting FADs. Future research is needed to explore the role of such non tuna species in the attraction and aggregation processes of tuna around drifting FADs.



392) Recherche du mot : greater silver hatchetfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/argyropelecus_gigas)


393) Recherche du mot : cone (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fan)


394) Recherche du mot : Vitesse du vent (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/windSpeed)


395) Recherche du mot : Brama brama (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/brama_brama)


396) Recherche du mot : Thresher (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alopias_vulpinus)


397) Recherche du mot : Oegopsida NI (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/oegopsida_ni)


398) Recherche du mot : Température de surface de l'océan (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sst)


399) Recherche du mot : récif (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/reef)


400) Recherche du mot : Indian south subtropical gyre (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/indian_south_subtropical_gyre_ecosystem)
1/326: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/regionalfeedingpatternsofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Regional feeding patterns of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) of the western Indian Ocean
The food composition of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox Lowe, 1833) was studied in two areas belonging to different biogeographic provinces of the western Indian Ocean: Indian Monsoon Gyres Province (MONS) and Indian South Subtropical Gyre Province (ISSG). A total of 158 lancetfish were sampled during two research longline cruises in 1986-1987: 50 within the MONS, from the western equatorial area (between the EEZs of Kenya and Seychelles) and 108 within the ISSG, from the northern part of the EEZ of Mauritius (Saya-de-Malha Bank – Agalega Islands area). In the equatorial area, 135 prey items (of 18 families or higher taxa) were found in the lancetfish stomachs. In the waters of Mauritius, 476 prey items of 53 taxa were recorded. Regional variability in the feeding habits reflects province-specific differences in the prey abundance and the structure of pelagic communities of the intermediate trophic levels. Large predatory crustaceans dominate in the waters of MONS, while they are absent in the poor waters of ISSG. Foraging success of the lancetfish on non-evasive prey was 3.2 times higher in the MONS than in the ISSG. In overall, swimming crab, Hyperiidea, conspecifics, barracudina, hatchetfish, hammerjaw, and Polychaeta were the predominant prey of the lancetfish. Great differences in the food composition of ‘small' (FL



401) Recherche du mot : diatom (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/diatom)
1/327: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystemparticomparingtrophiclinkagesunderlaninaandelninoconditions> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part I: Comparing trophic linkages under La Niña and El Niño conditions
The El Niño of 1997–98 was one of the strongest warming events of the past century; among many other effects, it impacted phytoplankton along the Peruvian coast by changing species composition and reducing biomass. While responses of the main fish resources to this natural perturbation are relatively well known, understanding the ecosystem response as a whole requires an ecotrophic multispecies approach. In this work, we construct trophic models of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem (NHCE) and compare the La Niña (LN) years in 1995–96 with the El Niño (EN) years in 1997–98. The model area extends from 4°S–16°S and to 60 nm from the coast. The model consists of 32 functional groups of organisms and differs from previous trophic models of the Peruvian system through: (i) division of plankton into size classes to account for EN-associated changes and feeding preferences of small pelagic fish, (ii) increased division of demersal groups and separation of life history stages of hake, (iii) inclusion of mesopelagic fish, and (iv) incorporation of the jumbo squid (Dosidicus gigas), which became abundant following EN. Results show that EN reduced the size and organization of energy flows of the NHCE, but the overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators, detritus and export) of the ecosystem was maintained. The reduction of diatom biomass during EN forced omnivorous planktivorous fish to switch to a more zooplankton-dominated diet, raising their trophic level. Consequently, in the EN model the trophic level increased for several predatory groups (mackerel, other large pelagics, sea birds, pinnipeds) and for fishery catch. A high modeled biomass of macrozooplankton was needed to balance the consumption by planktivores, especially during EN condition when observed diatoms biomass diminished dramatically. Despite overall lower planktivorous fish catches, the higher primary production required-to-catch ratio implied a stronger ecological impact of the fishery and stresses the need for precautionary management of fisheries during and after EN. During EN energetic indicators such as the lower primary production/total biomass ratio suggest a more energetically efficient ecosystem, while reduced network indicators such as the cycling index and relative ascendency indicate of a less organized state of the ecosystem. Compared to previous trophic models of the NHCE we observed: (i) a shrinking of ecosystem size in term of energy flows, (ii) slight changes in overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators and detritus), and (iii) the use of alternate pathways leading to a higher ecological impact of the fishery for planktivorous fish.



402) Recherche du mot : escarpment (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/escarpment)


403) Recherche du mot : Surface Fishery (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/surface_fishery)
1/328: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/arenaturalandfishingmortalitiescomparablefortropicaltunasamultispeciesapproachwithtaggingdata> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Are natural and fishing mortalities comparable for tropical tunas ? A multispecies approach with tagging data
With the aim of increasing the precision of parameter estimates in tagging analyses, we assumed that the dynamics of tagged fish from different tropical tuna species have processes in common. With this consideration in mind we fit different data sets from two distinct periods of the eastern Atlantic fishery with a multispecies tag-attrition model to provide information for the shared parameters. Among the different assumptions considered, a common attrition rate for the three species of tropical tuna (yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tuna) was not supported by the data under the AIC criteria. However the estimates of the attrition rate for yellowfin and for skipjack were relatively close. On the basis of these preliminary results, it would be interesting to check in the future the accuracy of a common type-1 tag losses (i.e., α) between tagging periods/locations or between species with more complete data sets. Given the limitations of the data and accounting for model uncertainties, it was shown that the Z coefficient was increased by a factor 4.5 for yellowfin from the first period of time (1980-1981) to the second one (1996- 2002). For skipjack and bigeye tuna this increase reached 3.4 and 3.2, respectively. One explanation may result from the increasing use of FADs fishing operations in the tropical surface fishery.

2/329: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleexploitationofamajortunaconcentrationintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Mesoscale exploitation of a major tuna concentration in the Indian Ocean
The paper analyzes the daily catch, fishing effort and fish size data of the purse seine fleet fishing in the
western Indian Ocean in February 2005, when a major concentration of tuna occurred and was heavily exploited by
this surface fishery. This tuna concentration event occurred over a period of just 12 days, in an area of about 3500
square nautical miles located to the west of the Seychelles. This small stratum produced a total catch of 22 000 t,
corresponding to 6.5% of the total fishing mortality of all adult yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) in the entire Indian
Ocean in 2005. Sets were made mainly on free schools and the catch mainly composed of large yellowfin tuna. The
average CPUE and the average catch per set were very large, 65 t and 85 t per fishing day, respectively. This “event” took
place in a precise area where a high concentration of chlorophyll had been localized 18 days before. The subsequent
concentration of tuna schools probably arose due to the high densities of their prey feeding on this large phytoplankton
biomass. This phytoplankton bloom was observed at the edge of an anticyclonic eddy, but its origin and its high density
cannot be fully explained by available environmental data. The adult yellowfin were probably at a reproductive stage
and actively feeding on the local food chain generated by the phytoplankton bloom. Such an event is extreme, but
typical of tuna purse seine fisheries where fleets often search for such tuna patches. These events play an important role
in tuna fisheries due to the increase in fishing effort and fishing efficiency of purses seiners, both of which increase their
impact on the resource. The fine scale study of such events and their improved integration into tuna stock assessments
is recommended.



404) Recherche du mot : zone de fractures (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fracture_zone)


405) Recherche du mot : Oceanic lightfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/vinciguerria_nimbaria)


406) Recherche du mot : glacis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/apron)


407) Recherche du mot : Haliphron atlanticus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/haliphron_atlanticus)


408) Recherche du mot : Epinephelus marginatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/epinephelus_marginatus)


409) Recherche du mot : céphalopode (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/cephalopod)


410) Recherche du mot : Hydroacoustic (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/hydroacoustic)


411) Recherche du mot : Thon obèse (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_obesus)


412) Recherche du mot : mesozooplankton (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/mesozooplankton)


413) Recherche du mot : Albatros à nez jaune (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thalassarche_chlororhynchos)


414) Recherche du mot : BET (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_obesus)
1/330: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anupdatedanalysisoftagsheddingbytropicaltunasintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : An Updated Analysis of Tag-Shedding by Tropical Tunas in the Indian Ocean.
Tag shedding experiment was conducted during the Regional Tuna tagging
Project-Indian Ocean by double-tagging part of the tuna released (27,850
double tags with 4,650 recoveries) with the objective of assessing the tag
shedding rate (type-1 shedding (immediate shedding and tagging-induced
mortality) and tag-2 shedding (continuous shedding and tag-induced
mortality)). This rate was assessed by estimating α and λ of the probability
of tag retention equation Q(t) = α [β/(β+λt)]β). For SKJ α = 0.987, λ (per
year) = 0.015; for YFT α = 0.977, λ (per year) = 0.041 and for BET α =
0.996, λ (per year) = 0.024. These results are comparable to others obtained
from large-scale tropical tuna tagging project.



415) Recherche du mot : Tetrapturus audax (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_audax)


416) Recherche du mot : Overfishing (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/overfishing)
1/331: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/roleofpredationbyharpsealspagophilusgroenlandicusinthecollapseandnonrecoveryofnortherngulfofstlawrencecodgadusmorhua> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Role of predation by harp seals Pagophilus groenlandicus in the collapse and non-recovery of northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod Gadus morhua
A statistical catch-at-age model was developed to assess the effects of predation by the northwest Atlantic harp seal population on northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod by estimating the relative importance of different sources of mortality that affected the stock during a period of collapse and non-recovery. Cod recruitment at age 1 is modeled via a non-linear stock-recruitment relationship based on total egg production and accounts for changes in female length-at-maturity and cod condition. Natural mortality other than seal predation also depends on cod condition used as an integrative index of changes in environmental conditions. The linkage between seals and cod is modeled through a multi-age functional response that was derived from the reconstruction of the seal diet using morphometric relationships and stomach contents of more than 200 seals collected between 1998 and 2001. The model was fitted following a maximum likelihood estimation approach to a scientific survey abundance index (1984 to 2006). Model results show that the collapse of the northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod stock was mainly due to the combination of high fishing mortality rates and poor environmental conditions in the early to mid-1990s contributing to the current state of recruitment overfishing. The increase in harp seal abundance during 1984 to 2006 was reflected by an increase in predation mortality for the young cod age-groups targeted by seals. Although current levels of predation mortality affect cod spawning biomass, the lack of recovery of the NGSL cod stock seems mainly due to the very poor recruitment.

2/332: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lessonsfromthepastinvestigatinghistoricaldatafrombluefintunafisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Lessons from the past : investigating historical data from bluefin tuna fisheries
In 1963, the leading fisheries targeting Atlantic bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus) in the Norwegian Sea and North Sea suddenly collapsed without any warning. Little is known about this collapse and several hypotheses have been put forward, such as changes in migratory routes, recruitment failure or eradication of a sub-population: all of these hypotheses could result from natural causes and/or from overfishing. To help explain this mysterious event, an original data set of the main bluefin tuna fisheries of the 20th century, including total catch and size composition of the catch, has been compiled and analysed. The results reveal a strong and unambiguous link between the Nordic purse seine and Spanish trap fisheries during the 1950s and 1960s. However, this link vanished during the 1970s. In addition, the North-west Atlantic and Mediterranean trap fisheries appeared also to be partially connected to the Nordic fisheries. During the 1950s and 1960s, the main migration routes of bluefin tuna were probably from the Mediterranean spawning grounds and from the West Atlantic coasts to the Norwegian coast and North Sea, which were probably a key feeding ground at that time. The analyses also lead to the conclusion that interactions between environmental, trophic and fishing processes have probably affected bluefin tuna migration patterns which would have finally caused the Nordic fisheries collapse. This retrospective analysis finally leads to an original 2013 albeit more speculative 2013 hypothesis concerning Atlantic bluefin tuna population structure, therein conjectured as an assemblage of at least three sub-populations.

3/333: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/theimpactofoverfishingandelninoontheconditionfactorandreproductivesuccessofperuvianhakemerlucciusgayiperuanus> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : The impact of overfishing and El Niño on the condition factor and reproductive success of Peruvian hake, Merluccius gayi peruanus
In this study we examine physiological responses of Peruvian hake (Merluccius gayi peruanus) to changes in their population structure and physical environment during the period 1971–2004. In particular, we assess the relative investment of energy in growth and/or reproduction of small (20–35 cm) and large (35–50 cm) hake. We calculated the (i) condition (Fulton's K), (ii) gonad and (iii) gut fullness indices for 42,761 female hakes sampled from commercial landings; these indices indicate fish somatic, reproductive and feeding condition, respectively. Using Generalized Additive Models we then examined potential relationships between these indices and sea surface temperature anomalies and date. Drastic energy exhaustion and a decrease in female hake fecundity were observed during El Niño events. The long-term trend showed a general increase in condition factor and a decrease in gonad index for large hake between 1971 and 2004. Small hake exhibited a different trend with an increase in reproductive activity, which was accompanied by an earlier maturation. We hypothesise that the observed low investment of energy in reproduction by large female hake might be related to the lack of large males, due to a sex-selective fishery and the impact of El Niño. We suggest that fishing diminished hake reproductive capacity, modified the sex ratio in favour of females and increased population vulnerability to environmental stress, in particular to the El Niño. The impact of multidecadal variability and predators like the squid, Dosidicus gigas, remain unresolved until longer time series become available.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

4/334: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ayearclasscurveanalysistoestimatemortalityofatlanticbluefintunacaughtbythenorwegianfisheryfromto> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : A year-class curve analysis to estimate mortality of Atlantic bluefin tuna caught by the Norwegian fishery from 1956 to 1979
At the ICCAT symposium on bluefin tuna that held in Santander in April 2008, Tangen et al.(2009) presented a first quantification of the fishing effort deployed by the Norwegian fishery targeting bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea. Using a year-class curve analysis on the Norwegian CPUE, this document presents the first estimates of mortality rates of Atlantic bluefin tuna that migrated north from the mid-1950s to the late 1970s. The results indicate that bluefin tuna would have experienced a total mortality rate (Z) of 0.2 to 0.4 yr-1 (i.e. F at around 0.3 yr-1) during the late 1950s, 0.2 yr-1 during the 1960s and 0.1 yr-1 afterwards (assuming M=0.1 yr-1). These results appear to be rather robust and consistent with the VPA estimates from the 1970s and early 1980s, albeit slightly higher. The fishing mortality rates experienced by bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea during the period 1956-1979 were thus significant (so that local overfishing may have occurred, especially during the 1950s), but lower than F estimated by year-class curve analysis in recent years (i.e. 1992-2004). This comparison between two distant periods of time during which BFT was significantly (highly) exploited tend to confirm, with new pieces of information, the pessimistic conclusions of the 2006 stock assessment.

5/335: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anattempttoevaluatetherecentmanagementregulationsoftheeastatlanticandmediterraneanbluefintunastockthroughasimplesimulationmodel> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : An attempt to evaluate the recent management regulations of the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock through a simple simulation model
This manuscript proposes a simple simulation model to investigate the implications to the resources of the
recent management regulations adopted for the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock. If
perfectly implemented, the new regulations on minimum size and closed fishing areas mostly lead to a
change in the selectivity pattern which moves towards older fish, so decreasing growth-overfishing. The
potential sustainable yields therefore considerably increase (almost double in comparison to those that
would be obtained without the new regulations) while the SSB can rapidly reach 20% of the virgin SSB. An
error of 20% in the implementation of these new regulations affects their efficiencies and does not seem to
allow the rebuilding of the SSB at a safe level. A significant increase in fishing mortality on older fish (ages
5+), due to the partial redeployment of the fisheries, affect even more strongly the rebuilding of the SSB. In
conclusion, the new regulations may appear sufficient to rebuild the SSB to a level > 20% of the virgin SSB,
if (and only if) they are perfectly implemented and don't generate any increase in the fishing effort on older
fish. In other words, control over all the fisheries that target BFT in the East Atlantic and the Mediterranean
is probably the key of the edifice.

6/336: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/changesinfoodwebstructureunderscenariosofoverfishinginthesouthernbenguelacomparisonoftheecosimandosmosemodellingapproaches> : SCORE = 0.8010912
Doc : Changes in food web structure under scenarios of overfishing in the southern Benguela: comparison of the Ecosim and OSMOSE modelling approaches
Ecosystem models provide a platform allowing exploration into the possible responses of marine food webs to fishing pressure and various potential management decisions. In this study we investigate the particular effects of overfishing on the structure and function of the southern Benguela food web, using two models with different underlying assumptions: the spatialized, size-based individual-based model, OSMOSE, and the trophic mass-balance model, Ecopath with Ecosim (EwE). Starting from the same reference state of the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem during the 1990s, we compare the response of the food web to scenarios of overfishing using these two modelling approaches. A scenario of increased fishing mortality is applied to two distinct functional groups: i) two species of Cape hake, representing important target predatory fish, and ii) the forage species anchovy, sardine and redeye. In these simulations, fishing mortality on the selected functional groups is doubled for 10 years, followed by 10 years at the initial fishing mortality. We compare the food web states before the increase of fishing mortality, after 10 years of overfishing and after a further 10 years during which fishing was returned to initial levels. In order to compare the simulated food web structures with the reference state, and between the two modelling approaches, we use a set of trophic indicators: the mean trophic level of the community and in catches, the trophic pyramid (biomass per discrete trophic level), and the predatory/forage fish biomass ratio. OSMOSE and EwE present globally similar results for the trophic functioning of the ecosystem under fishing pressure: the biomass of targeted species decreases whereas that of their potential competitors increases. The reaction of distant species is more diverse, depending on the feeding links between the compartments. The mean trophic level of the community does not vary enough to be used for assessing ecosystem impacts of fishing, and the mean trophic level in the catch displays a surprising increase due to the short period of overfishing. The trophic pyramids behave in an unexpected way compared to trophic control theory, because at least two food chains with different dynamics are intertwined within the food web. We emphasize the importance of biomass information at the species level for interpreting dynamics in aggregated indicators, and we highlight the importance of competitive groups when looking at ecosystem functioning under fishing disturbance. Finally, we discuss the results within the scope of differences between models, in terms of the way they are formulated, spatial dimensions, predation formulations and the representation of fish life cycles.

7/337: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactofclimateoneelpopulationsofthenorthernhemisphere> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Impact of climate on eel populations of the Northern Hemisphere
Glass eel abundances are declining worldwide. This has mostly been attributed to direct impacts of human activities such as overfishing or habitat loss and degradation, whilst the potential influence of changes in oceanic conditions has received less attention. Eel are characterized by a complex and still enigmatic life cycle that includes a trans-oceanic spawning and larval migration. The apparent synchrony in the decline of eel populations worldwide suggests that the oceanic mechanisms involved are similar for all populations. We analyse the relationships between oceanic conditions in eel spawning areas and glass eel recruitment success of the 3 most commercially important species of the genus Anguilla: A. anguilla, A. rostrata, and A. japonica. We provide evidence that the survival of eel larvae is strongly correlated with food availability during their early life stages. Over the last 4 decades, changes in the marine production related to global warming may have led to the decline of European, American and Japanese eel populations. In the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, the shifts in the temperature regime detected in the late 1970s were followed by shifts in the recruitment regime of glass eel for the 3 species. The decrease in primary production through climate-driven processes has therefore affected the recruitment of eel populations



417) Recherche du mot : wind_speed (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/windSpeed)


418) Recherche du mot : Tiburón oceánico (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_longimanus)


419) Recherche du mot : élément d'un écosystème (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/element)


420) Recherche du mot : ESPAGNE (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_ESP)


421) Recherche du mot : Peruvian booby (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sula_variegata)


422) Recherche du mot : Albatros hurleur (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diomedea_exulans)


423) Recherche du mot : Pacific Ocean (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pacificOcean)
1/338: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/windwavesandwingloadingmorphologicalspecializationmaylimitrangeexpansionofendangeredalbatrosses> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Wind, Waves, and Wing Loading: Morphological Specialization May Limit Range Expansion of Endangered Albatrosses
Among the varied adaptations for avian flight, the morphological traits allowing large-bodied albatrosses to capitalize on wind and wave energy for efficient long-distance flight are unparalleled. Consequently, the biogeographic distribution of most albatrosses is limited to the windiest oceanic regions on earth; however, exceptions exist. Species breeding in the North and Central Pacific Ocean (Phoebastria spp.) inhabit regions of lower wind speed and wave height than southern hemisphere genera, and have large intrageneric variation in body size and aerodynamic performance. Here, we test the hypothesis that regional wind and wave regimes explain observed differences in Phoebastria albatross morphology and we compare their aerodynamic performance to representatives from the other three genera of this globally distributed avian family. In the North and Central Pacific, two species (short-tailed P. albatrus and waved P. irrorata) are markedly larger, yet have the smallest breeding ranges near highly productive coastal upwelling systems. Short-tailed albatrosses, however, have 60% higher wing loading (weight per area of lift) compared to waved albatrosses. Indeed, calculated aerodynamic performance of waved albatrosses, the only tropical albatross species, is more similar to those of their smaller congeners (black-footed P. nigripes and Laysan P. immutabilis), which have relatively low wing loading and much larger foraging ranges that include central oceanic gyres of relatively low productivity. Globally, the aerodynamic performance of short-tailed and waved albatrosses are most anomalous for their body sizes, yet consistent with wind regimes within their breeding season foraging ranges. Our results are the first to integrate global wind and wave patterns with albatross aerodynamics, thereby identifying morphological specialization that may explain limited breeding ranges of two endangered albatross species. These results are further relevant to understanding past and potentially predicting future distributional limits of albatrosses globally, particularly with respect to climate change effects on basin-scale and regional wind fields.

2/339: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofyearsofiattcbigeyestockassessmentsintheeasternpacificocean> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : An overview of 10 years of IATTC bigeye stock assessments in the Eastern Pacific Ocean
This working paper examines and discusses the bigeye stock assessment results obtained by the IATTC since 2000. It concludes that there was a large variability, uncertainties and potential bias in these past results, while these basic problems were seldom or never discussed in the yearly assessment reports. The paper tries to identify the potential causes that could explain these often wide uncertainties. A combination of statistical, biological and modelling uncertainties have been identified and they are discussed in the paper. In its conclusions, the paper makes a series of research recommendations that would improve the future quality of the bigeye stock assessment in the EPO.

3/340: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/pelagiclonglinefishingdepthconfrontingcatenarytheorydatawithdepthobservationsfrommonitoredlonglinefishingexperimentswp> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Pelagic longline fishing depth: Confronting catenary theory data with depth observations from monitored longline fishing experiments (WP5)
The aim of this paper is to ascertain the accuracy of hooks depth distribution estimated from the catenary theory model commonly used in CPUE standardization. From hook depth observations collected during monitored longline fishing experiments conducted in the central part of the South Pacific Ocean, we explore the effects of several environmental descriptors and variables describing gear configuration and fishing tactic on the longline shoaling (i.e., the difference between the observed and the theoretical maximum fishing depth). Our results showed that the shoaling (absolute and relative) can be significantly influenced by the current shear, the direction of the setting and the shape of the mainline (i.e., the tangential angle) which is the strongest and the most consistent predictor in GLMs. Some simple transformations are proposed to account for the non-linearity between the shoaling and the explanatory variables. As a consequence, our findings suggest that catenary maximum fishing depth estimates or the number of hooks per basket should be used with caution in methods addressed for CPUE standardization. In addition, we conclude by a discussion on how suitable data could be collected routinely on commercial fishing vessels in order to estimate the maximum fishing depth at the set operation level.

4/341: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/migratoryshearwatersintegrateoceanicresourcesacrossthepacificoceaninanendlesssummer> : SCORE = 1.4183372
Doc : Migratory shearwaters integrate oceanic resources across the Pacific Ocean in an endless summer
Electronic tracking tags have revolutionized our understanding of broad-scale movements and habitat use of highly mobile marine animals, but a large gap in our knowledge still remains for a wide range of small species. Here, we report the extraordinary transequatorial postbreeding migrations of a small seabird, the sooty shearwater, obtained with miniature archival tags that log data for estimating. position, dive depth, and ambient temperature. Tracks (262 +/- 23 days) reveal that shearwaters fly across the entire Pacific Ocean in a figure-eight pattern while traveling 64,037 +/- 9,779 km roundtrip, the longest animal migration ever recorded electronically. Each shearwater made a prolonged stopover in one of three discrete regions off Japan, Alaska, or California before returning to New Zealand through a relatively narrow corridor in the central Pacific Ocean. Transit rates as high as 910 +/- 186 km(.)day(-1) were recorded, and shearwaters accessed prey resources in both the Northern and Southern Hemisphere's most productive waters from the surface to 68.2 m depth. Our results indicate that sooty shearwaters integrate oceanic resources throughout the Pacific Basin on a yearly scale. Sooty shearwater populations today are declining, and because they operate on a global scale, they may serve as an important indicator of climate change and ocean health.

5/342: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/effectsofthegeardeploymentstrategyandcurrentshearonpelagiclonglineshoaling> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Effects of the gear deployment strategy and current shear on pelagic longline shoaling
Historical longline catch per unit effort (CPUE) constitutes the major time series used in tuna stock assessment to followthe trend in abundance since the beginning of the large-scale tuna fisheries. The efficiency and species composition of a longline fishing operations essentially depends on the overlap in the vertical and spatial distribution between hooks and species habitat. Longline catchability depends on the vertical distribution of hooks and the aim of our paper was to analyse principal factors affecting the deviation of observed longline hook depths from predicted values. Since observed hook depth is usually shallower than predicted, this deviation is called longline shoaling.We evaluate the accuracy of hook depth distribution estimated from a theoretical catenary model commonly used in longline CPUE standardizations. Temperature-depth recorders (TDRs) were deployed on baskets of a monitored longline. Mainline shapes and maximum fishing depths were similar to gear configurations commonly used to target both yellowfin and bigeye tuna by commercial longliners in the central part of the South Pacific Ocean. Our working hypothesis assumes that the maximum fishing depth reached by the mainline depends on the gear configuration (sag ratio, mainline length per basket), the fishing tactics (bearing of the setting) and environmental variables characterizing water mass dynamics (wind stress, current velocity and shear). Based on generalized additive models (GAMs) simple transformations are proposed to account for the non-linearity between the shoaling and explanatory variables. Then, generalized linear models (GLMs) were fit to model the effects of explanatory variables on the longline shoaling. Results indicated that the shoaling (absolute aswell as relative) was significantly influenced by (1) the shape of the mainline (i.e., the tangential angle), which is the strongest predictor, and (2) the current shear and the direction of setting. Geometric forcing (i.e. transverse versus in-line) between the environment and the longline set is shown for the first time from in situ experimental fishing data. Results suggest that a catenary model that does not take these factors into consideration provides a biased estimate of the vertical distribution of hooks and must be used with caution in CPUEs standardization methods. Since catchability varies in time and space we discuss how suitable data could be routinely collected onboard commercial fishing vessels in order to estimate longline catchability for stock assessments.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved..

6/343: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/interpretingcatchperuniteffortdatatoassesthestatusofindividualstocksandcommunities> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Interpreting catch per unit effort data to asses the status of individual stocks and communities
Despite being one of the most common pieces of information used in assessing the status of
fish stocks, relative abundance indices based on catch per unit effort (cpue) data are notoriously
problematic. Raw cpue is seldom proportional to abundance over a whole exploitation
history and an entire geographic range, because numerous factors affect catch rates.
One of the most commonly applied fisheries analyses is standardization of cpue data to remove
the effect of factors that bias cpue as an index of abundance. Even if cpue is standardized
appropriately, the resulting index of relative abundance, in isolation, provides limited
information for management advice or about the effect of fishing. In addition, cpue data
generally cannot provide information needed to assess and manage communities or ecosystems.
We discuss some of the problems associated with the use of cpue data and some
methods to assess and provide management advice about fish populations that can help
overcome these problems, including integrated stock assessment models, management strategy
evaluation, and adaptive management. We also discuss the inappropriateness of using
cpue data to evaluate the status of communities. We use tuna stocks in the Pacific Ocean as
examples.

7/344: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/speciescompositionoftunacatchestakenbypurseseiners> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Species composition of tuna catches taken by purse seiners
This paper makes a presentation of the multi-species
size sampling that have been conducted in the Indian and
Atlantic oceans since the early eighties allowing to
estimate the average species and size composition of tuna
landings by pole and line vessels and purse seiners. The
paper further discusses the structural biases that are
expected when sampling the complex mixture of sizes and
species that are observed on FAD schools, when done by
observers. It advocates the necessity to sample these
catches using large scale port multispecies sampling
schemes. The data processing of these multi species
samples is also discussed, based the methods developed by
EU scientists in the Atlantic and Indian oceans. The paper
recommends promoting a unified sampling scheme of
purse seine landings in the WCP and a unified data
processing of these size and species samples. The final
recommendation of the paper would to process all the
WCP historical data of species composition using this new
method, and to promote as soon as possible in the WCP
such optimized sampling scheme, this sampling being
fully coordinated between IATTC and WCPFC at the
scale of the entire Pacific Ocean.



424) Recherche du mot : archipelagic apron (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/archipelagic_apron)


425) Recherche du mot : Carita lucio (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_cavalla)


426) Recherche du mot : Silky shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_falciformis)
1/345: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysisofdataobtainedfromobserverprogrammesconductedinandintheindianoceanonboardfrenchpurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Analysis of data obtained from observer programmes conducted in 2005 and 2006 in the indian ocean on board french purse seiners
This paper is a preliminary analysis of the data obtained under the National Database Plan (PNDB).
Between October 2005 and July 2006, three observers from the Development and Research Institute
(IRD) have been on board four French tuna purse seiners. They had to estimate by-catch and discard
and collect detailed information on the fishing activities and the use of FADs.
Areas prospected during these 134 days were NW Seychelles, SE Seychelles, E. Somalia and
Maldives-Chagos; 194 sets (116 positives and 86 negative) have been observed, with a majority
(84%) on free schools (162 sets, 51% positive) and quite few (16%) on associated schools (32 sets,
81% positives). During the day, the main activities of the boat were searching and fishing,
respectively 31% and 13% of total activity. Main reasons for null sets over free school as well as
FADs was that fish sinks or move too fast.
Discards were practically nulls and concerned mainly yellowfin tuna. About by-catch, it represents
less than 1% of total catch (in weight), mainly triggerfish, rainbow runner and wahoo. Selacians
(except shark whales) represented nearly 12% of the total by-catch (in weight) with mainly silky shark
over FADs and skate over free school. As regards billfishes, they represent 5% of total by-catch (in
weight) with mainly Indo-Pacific Sailfish over free school and black marlin over FADs.

2/346: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitelinkedacousticreceiverstoobservebehavioroffishesinremoteareas> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Satellite-linked acoustic receivers to observe behavior of fishes in remote areas
Automated acoustic receivers are now widely used by biologists to study the behavior of fish. However, currently available acoustic receivers require physical recovery of the units to download stored data. Such operation is often difficult in remote study areas like in the open ocean. We present a new satellite-linked acoustic receiver (Vemco VR3-Argos) that allows downloading data through a satellite uplink (Argos). The VR3-Argos can last up to one year, sending GPS positions and tag data at regular time intervals. We illustrate the advantages of this new technology with tagging data from 121 fish of seven species (yellowfin tuna, bigeye tuna, skipjack tuna, wahoo, dolphinfish, silky shark and oceanic triggerfish) caught and released around drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean, far from any land. In opposition with the classic acoustic receivers (Vemco VR2), the use of VR3-Argos allowed to collect data for several weeks after leaving the drifting FADs. Maximum residence times of 3 days for bigeye tuna, 7 days for skipjack, 8 days for wahoo, 10 days for silky shark and 15 days for yellowfin tuna, dolphinfish and oceanic triggerfish could be recorded. VR2 and VR3-Argos are equivalent in terms of quality of residence times data, however depth data obtained through satellites are aggregated in 8 classes for compression purposes, which leads to a loss of precision available with raw data. Future directions of this technology are discussed.

3/347: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwpeb> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : IOTC WPEB - 2008/016
Data collected through 20 observer fishing trips were used to quantify
the number of silky sharks taken as bycatch by the French tuna
purse seine fishery of the Western Indian Ocean. 1,385 immature
silky sharks of which 85% was discarded at sea and 15% retained
aboard, were observed as bycatch during 685 fishing sets observed
from October 2005 to April 2008. Zero-inflated regression models
fitted with Bayesian methods were used to explain silky shark
bycatch as a function of fishing mode (free vs. fishing aggregating
device-associated (FAD) schools), area, and season. Model results
showed that silky sharks occurred in 24% of the fishing sets with an
expected number of sharks per set estimated to be 2.02 ± 0.05. The
3 covariates were found to significantly explain both the presence
and number of silky sharks caught by the French purse seiners. FAD
was shown to have a strong positive effect on the number of silky
sharks caught, an expected value of 4.3 sharks being taken in FADassociated
schools versus 0.3 shark in free schools. There were
significant differences in silky shark bycatch between seasons and
areas with higher bycatch than average in July-September and in the
South-East Seychelles area while fewer sharks were expected to be
caught in the North Somali area. Results are discussed within the
context of the ecosystem approach to fisheries for the analysis of
ecosystem effects of fishing.



427) Recherche du mot : Detection activity (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/detection_activity)


428) Recherche du mot : élément géologique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/geologic_element)


429) Recherche du mot : écosystème estuarien (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/estuary_ecosystem)


430) Recherche du mot : col (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/saddle)
1/348: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/seasonaldivingbehaviourinlactatingsubantarcticfursealsonamsterdamisland> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Seasonal diving behaviour in lactating subantarctic fur seals on Amsterdam Island
Diving behaviour was investigated in female
subantarctic fur seals (Arctocephalus tropicalis) breeding
on Amsterdam Island, Indian Ocean. Data were col-
lected using electronic Time Depth Recorders on 19
seals during their ®rst foraging trip after parturition in
December, foraging trips later in summer, and during
winter. Subantarctic fur seals at Amsterdam Island are
nocturnal, shallow divers. Ninety-nine percent of re-
corded dives occurred at night. The diel dive pattern and
changes in dive parameters throughout the night suggest
that fur seals follow the nycthemeral migrations of their
main prey. Seasonal changes in diving behaviour
amounted to the fur seals performing progressively
deeper and longer dives from their ®rst foraging trip
through winter. Dive depth and dive duration increased
from the ®rst trip after parturition (16.6  0.5 m
and 62.1  1.6 s respectively, n  1000) to summer
(19.0  0.4 m and 65  1 s, respectively, n  2000)
through winter (29.0  1.0 m and 91.2  2.2 s, re-
spectively, n  800). In summer, subantarctic fur seals
increased the proportion of time spent at the bottom
during dives of between 10 and 20 m, apparently
searching for prey when descending to these depths,
which corresponded to the oceanic mixed layer. In
winter, fur seals behaved similarly when diving between
20 and 50 m, suggesting that the most pro®table depths
for feeding moved down during the study period. Most
of the dives did not exceed the physiological limits of
individuals. Although dive frequency did not vary (10
dives/h of night), the vertical travel distance and the time
spent diving increased throughout the study period, while the post-dive interval decreased, indicating that
subantarctic fur seals showed a greater diving effort in
winter, compared to earlier seasons.



431) Recherche du mot : Gonade (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/gonad)


432) Recherche du mot : Sharptooth jobfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pristipomoides_typus)


433) Recherche du mot : Bigeye tuna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_obesus)
1/349: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/arenaturalandfishingmortalitiescomparablefortropicaltunasamultispeciesapproachwithtaggingdata> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Are natural and fishing mortalities comparable for tropical tunas ? A multispecies approach with tagging data
With the aim of increasing the precision of parameter estimates in tagging analyses, we assumed that the dynamics of tagged fish from different tropical tuna species have processes in common. With this consideration in mind we fit different data sets from two distinct periods of the eastern Atlantic fishery with a multispecies tag-attrition model to provide information for the shared parameters. Among the different assumptions considered, a common attrition rate for the three species of tropical tuna (yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tuna) was not supported by the data under the AIC criteria. However the estimates of the attrition rate for yellowfin and for skipjack were relatively close. On the basis of these preliminary results, it would be interesting to check in the future the accuracy of a common type-1 tag losses (i.e., α) between tagging periods/locations or between species with more complete data sets. Given the limitations of the data and accounting for model uncertainties, it was shown that the Z coefficient was increased by a factor 4.5 for yellowfin from the first period of time (1980-1981) to the second one (1996- 2002). For skipjack and bigeye tuna this increase reached 3.4 and 3.2, respectively. One explanation may result from the increasing use of FADs fishing operations in the tropical surface fishery.

2/350: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usinglocalecologicalknowledgelektoprovideinsightonthetunapurseseinefleetsoftheindianoceanusefulformanagement> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Using local ecological knowledge (LEK) to provide insight on the tuna purse seine fleets of the Indian Ocean useful for management
The purse seine fishery in the Western Indian Ocean is dominated by Spanish and French vessels that rely heavily on the use of drifting fish aggregation devices (DFADs) to capture tropical tuna species (skipjack, yellowfin and bigeye tuna). This study uses local ecological knowledge (LEK) obtained through standardized interviews of fishing masters to compare and characterize the body of local ecological knowledge, fishing technology and fishing strategies of both fleets, with the goal of obtaining useful information for the management of the fishery. A notable difference between fleets was the number of DFADs actively monitored per vessel at any given time, which was much higher for Spanish vessels (ca. 60 versus 20 DFADs). Spanish vessels also achieved higher vessel CPUE (catch per DFAD set) than their French counterparts. The use of supply vessels to manage, monitor and protect productive DFADs, and the latest satellite-based technology to track and remotely monitor DFAD aggregations is restricted to the Spanish fleet. The French do not use supply vessels and deploy less sophisticated tracking buoys. These technological disparities resulted in some fishing strategy differences between both fleets, but few differences were found in the knowledge of tuna behavior accumulated by the fishers.

3/351: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howtomodelthesizedependentverticalbehaviourofbigeyethunnusobesustunaanditsenvironment> : SCORE = 2.866071
Doc : How to model the size-dependent vertical behaviour of bigeye (Thunnus obesus) tuna and its environment?
This paper attempts to model the vertical behavior of bigeye tuna in its environment. A sizedependant
model for bigeye tuna “normal” vertical behavior is developed. The model rests on
sound hypothesis about bigeye vertical behavior and takes into account the remarkable ability
of tuna to physiologically modify their heat exchange rate with ambient waters. The model
explicitly relates heat exchange rates to size. Simulations are presented which closely matches
with observed behaviors. Environmental factors and physio-ethological processes involved in
the bigeye tuna thermoregulation and vertical movements are discussed as well as the potential
consequences of the size-dependence of bigeye tuna thermoregulation.

4/352: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitelinkedacousticreceiverstoobservebehavioroffishesinremoteareas> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Satellite-linked acoustic receivers to observe behavior of fishes in remote areas
Automated acoustic receivers are now widely used by biologists to study the behavior of fish. However, currently available acoustic receivers require physical recovery of the units to download stored data. Such operation is often difficult in remote study areas like in the open ocean. We present a new satellite-linked acoustic receiver (Vemco VR3-Argos) that allows downloading data through a satellite uplink (Argos). The VR3-Argos can last up to one year, sending GPS positions and tag data at regular time intervals. We illustrate the advantages of this new technology with tagging data from 121 fish of seven species (yellowfin tuna, bigeye tuna, skipjack tuna, wahoo, dolphinfish, silky shark and oceanic triggerfish) caught and released around drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean, far from any land. In opposition with the classic acoustic receivers (Vemco VR2), the use of VR3-Argos allowed to collect data for several weeks after leaving the drifting FADs. Maximum residence times of 3 days for bigeye tuna, 7 days for skipjack, 8 days for wahoo, 10 days for silky shark and 15 days for yellowfin tuna, dolphinfish and oceanic triggerfish could be recorded. VR2 and VR3-Argos are equivalent in terms of quality of residence times data, however depth data obtained through satellites are aggregated in 8 classes for compression purposes, which leads to a loss of precision available with raw data. Future directions of this technology are discussed.

5/353: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteonthestockstructureofpacificbigeyetunatobeusedinstockassessments> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Note on the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna to be used in stock assessments
This paper reviews and discusses the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna in relation with the prospects of stock assessment analysis of this population. The analysis of fishery data, mainly the spatio temporal bigeye catches by gear and by sizes, indicates that the present 150°W frontier based on historical and administrative results does not appear to be a convenient biological frontier. Our conclusion is that the present lack of significant tag recoveries across the 150°W frontier should not be considered as being significant, due to the limited numbers of bigeye presently tagged and to the great distances between present tagging locations. North South movements of adult bigeye are also a potential source of mixing between eastern and western bigeye populations. It is hypothetized that there could be an increased net flow of juvenile bigeye towards the WCPO due to the increased number of FADs in the western EPO. Our conclusion is that all the bigeye stock assessments by WCPFC and the IATTC should preferably be conducted in a unified best model and at a Pacific wide scale. A large scale tagging programme covering the distribution area of the entire bigeye population and fully coordinated between WCPFC and IATTC would be necessary to obtain realistic and age specific movement patterns at a Pacific wide level. Management actions of the bigeye stocks should also be fully coordinated between the Western and Eastern stocks, because of the probably weak biological frontier and also because of the bigeye long life span. The long term management benefits or failures will probably be shared by WCPFC and IATTC.

6/354: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climaticoscillationsandtunacatchratesintheindianoceanawaveletapproachtotimeseriesanalysis> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Climatic oscillations and tuna catch rates in the Indian Ocean: a wavelet approach to time series analysis
We analysed the influence of climatic oscillations
[based on the Indian Oscillation Index (IOI)] on
monthly catch rates of two tropical tuna species in
the equatorial Indian Ocean. We carried out wavelet
analysis, an efficient method of time series analysis
to study non-stationary data. Catch per unit of effort
(CPUE) of bigeye tuna was computed from Japanese
longline statistics from 1955 to 2002 in the equatorial
Indian Ocean and CPUE of yellowfin tuna
was derived from industrial purse seine statistics
from 1984 to 2003 in the Western Indian Ocean.
Wavelet analyses allowed us to quantify both the
pattern of variability in the time series and nonstationary
associations between tuna and climatic
signals. Phase analyses were carried out to investigate
dependency between the two signals. We
reported strong associations between tuna and
climate series for the 4- and 5-yr periodic modes, i.e.
the periodic band of the El Nin˜o Southern Oscillation
signal propagation in the Indian Ocean.
These associations were non-stationary, evidenced
from 1970 to 1990 for bigeye, and from 1984 to
1991 and then from 1993 to 2001 for yellowfin.
Warm episodes (low negative IOI values) matched
increases of longline catch rates of bigeye during the
1970–1990 time frame, whereas the strong 1997–
1998 warm event matched a decrease of purse seine
catch rates of yellowfin. We discussed these results
in terms of changes in catchability for purse seine
and longline.

7/355: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/opportunisticpredationintunaasizebasedapproach> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Opportunistic predation in tuna: a size-based approach
To test whether predation is an opportunistic size-based process within a tuna community, analyses were carried out on the size composition of stomach contents of bigeye tuna Thunnus obesus (Lowe, 1839) and yellowfin tuna T. albacares (Bonnaterre, 1788) caught in 1995 to 1997 during longline scientific surveys in the French Polynesian Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). Prey size distributions were compared with the size distribution of organisms collected by pelagic trawls carried out during the same programme. Relationships between prey size and predator size were studied using quantile regressions, and were related to tuna mouth-gape measurements. The results showed that mean and maximum sizes of prey increased with increasing predator size, and that maximum prey sizes (versus tuna size) were below those predicted by tuna mouth-gape size. Minimum prey size varied little with tuna size, and the size distributions of prey in tuna stomachs were very asymmetrical (lognormal type), confirming that during growth, tunas continue to feed on small prey. Comparison with previous studies on other piscivorous species from different ecosystems underlined that tunas feed on very small prey in relation to their own size. However, comparison of size distributions of prey in stomach contents and prey in pelagic trawls revealed that bigeye tuna select larger prey than yellowfin tuna when such prey are available.

8/356: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/tunanaturalmortalityasafunctionoftheiragethebigeyetunathunnusobesuscase> : SCORE = 1.7729216
Doc : Tuna natural mortality as a function of their age: the bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) case
This document reviews the age-specific levels and variability of natural mortality (Mi) in tuna
populations. Based on a review of the literature concerning this fundamental parameter, the U
shape curve of Mi expected for all living creatures as a function of their sizes and ages is
discussed. High levels of Mi are a biological rule for larvae and juveniles: minimal rates of Mi
tend to be observed before first spawning, followed by increasing Mi during spawning and for
older fishes due to biological senescence. The biological factors contributing to Mi variability
of tunas are presented and discussed. The paper later compares the profiles and levels of Mi
presently used for bigeye tuna by tuna Commissions. The biological validity of differences in
the Mi at juvenile ages between different species is discussed (for instance small yellowfin and
small bigeye). VPA are conducted on catch-at-age vectors typical of bigeye fisheries, using
various vectors of Mi. A subsequent yield-per-recruit analysis tends to confirm that the
potential negative effects of catching large amount of small bigeye tuna are highly dependent
on the Mi vector. It is concluded that scientists should better take this major biological
uncertainty for bigeye into account.

9/357: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/growthofbigeyetunathunnusobesusintheeasternatlanticoceanfromtaggingrecapturedataandotolithsreadings> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Growth of bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) in the Eastern Atlantic ocean from tagging-recapture data and otoliths readings
Growth of bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) in the eastern Atlantic Ocean is studied from (1) 625
bigeye tagged and recaptured with a fork length (FL) range 37-124 cm, (2) otoliths collected on
108 bigeye in Dakar from which 83 were use to validate the growth ring deposit by oxytetracyclin
antibiotic injection, and (3) otoliths from 147 bigeye collected in Abidjan. For
otoliths, the sizes of Dakar bigeye range from 37 cm to 112 cm FL (almost all juveniles), those
from Abidjan from 29 cm to 190 cm (juveniles and adults). Growth curves obtained from the
two different sets of data are similar so all data are combined to give a single growth curve for
bigeye with K=0.180 yr-1
, L∞ = 217.3 cm and t0 = -0.709 year. The interest of this approach is
the confirmation of the daily rate for ring deposit on otoliths and the use of both tagging and
otoliths' reading to estimate growth parameters.

10/358: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/behaviorofyellowfinthunnusalbacaresandbigeyetobesustunainanetworkoffishaggregatingdevicesfads> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Behavior of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) and bigeye (T-obesus) tuna in a network of fish aggregating devices (FADs)
The influence of multiple anchored fish aggregating devices (FADs) on the spatial behavior of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) and bigeye tuna (T. obesus) was investigated by equipping all thirteen FADs surrounding the island of Oahu (HI, USA) with automated sonic receivers ("listening stations") and intra-peritoneally implanting individually coded acoustic transmitters in 45 yellowfin and 12 bigeye tuna. Thus, the FAD network became a multi-element passive observatory of the residence and movement characteristics of tuna within the array. Yellowfin tuna were detected within the FAD array for up to 150 days, while bigeye tuna were only observed up to a maximum of 10 days after tagging. Only eight yellowfin tuna (out of 45) and one bigeye tuna (out of 12) visited FADs other than their FAD of release. Those nine fish tended to visit nearest neighboring FADs and, in general, spent more time at their FAD of release than at the others. Fish visiting the same FAD several times or visiting other FADs tended to stay longer in the FAD network. A majority of tagged fish exhibited some synchronicity when departing the FADs but not all tagged fish departed a FAD at the same time: small groups of tagged fish left together while others remained. We hypothesize that tuna (at an individual or collective level) consider local conditions around any given FAD to be representative of the environment on a larger scale (e.g., the entire island) and when those conditions become unfavorable the tuna move to a completely different area. Thus, while the anchored FADs surrounding the island of Oahu might concentrate fish and make them more vulnerable to fishing, at a meso-scale they might not entrain fish longer than if there were no (or very few) FADs in the area. At the existing FAD density, the 'Cyisland effect' is more likely to be responsible for the general presence of fish around the island than the FADs. We recommend further investigation of this hypothesis.

11/359: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acomparisonofbigeyethunnusobesusstocksandfisheriesintheatlanticindianandpacificoceans> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : A comparison of bigeye (Thunnus obesus) stocks and fisheries in the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans
This paper presents a comparison of fisheries exploiting bigeye tuna. First, a comparison of the
bigeye catch trends by ocean is done. It shows in all areas a fast and quite synchronous
increase of bigeye catches since the early 1980s, followed by a stable or slowly declining catch
trend. Worldwide catches are due to a combination of low value bigeye taken by purse seiners
(mainly small sizes under FADs and of valuable large bigeye targeted by longliners for the
sashimi market. Sizes taken by the various gears in the three oceans are compared. Historical
changes of fishing zones are analysed. The relationship between catches of longliners and sea
surface temperatures is reviewed in each ocean. The main biological characteristics of bigeye
tuna such as growth, sex ratio-at-size and natural mortality, estimated in the various oceans
are compared. Bigeye stock status and the recent changes in the stock assessment diagnosis
done by the different tuna agencies, following the recent increases of catches, are examined
and discussed. Present limitations and uncertainties on the real stock status of bigeye
worldwide are discussed. It is concluded that despite more active research developed
worldwide during recent years on bigeye tunas, the assessment and prospects for management
of these heavily exploited stocks remain widely uncertain and an increasing source of concern.

12/360: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/resourcepartitioningwithinatropicalseabirdcommunitynewinformationfromstableisotopes> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Resource partitioning within a tropical seabird community: new information from stable isotopes
Characteristics of the tropical oceanic environment (low productivity, little seasonality) and poor diversity of tropical seabird foraging methods and prey relative to temperate and polar species suggest that tropical seabirds overall encompass a narrow range of isotopic niches, with large overlaps among species. To test this hypothesis, we examined the stable carbon (δ13C) and nitrogen (δ15N) isotopic composition of blood and feathers of 5 seabird species from Europa Island, Mozambique Channel. While differences were small, blood δ13C and δ15N values characterized 5 distinct and non-overlapping trophic niches during the breeding period. Seabirds used 2 distinct foraging areas (δ13C), one used by sooty tern Sterna fuscata and white-tailed tropicbird Phaethon lepturus and one used by red-footed booby Sula sula and great Fregata minor and lesser F. ariel frigatebirds. Seabird species overall encompassed less than 1 trophic level (δ15N), which is in agreement with a diet mainly based on flying fish and squid. Feather δ13C and δ15N values showed that the trophic structure of the community was different during the breeding and non-breeding (moulting) periods, suggesting a shift in the feeding ecology when adult birds were no longer central-place foragers. The stable isotope method underlined sex-related (red-footed booby) and age-related (great frigatebird immatures and adults) feeding strategies. It also suggested that breeding adults could feed themselves on different prey than those given to their chicks (sooty tern). Within the tropical pelagic ecosystem, seabirds overall shared the same trophic level as large predatory fishes (albacore, yellowfin and skipjack tunas), but they had lower δ15N values than the deeper-dwelling bigeye tuna and swordfish. We conclude that analyzing stable isotope values in blood and feathers appears to be a promising alternative method for investigating food and feeding ecology of tropical seabirds year round, and for determining sex- and age-related differences in their foraging strategies. A limitation of the method is the lack of information on marine isoscapes; future studies aimed at isotopically characterizing the tropical marine environment could help to associate consumer signatures to geographic origins.

13/361: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/effectsofthegeardeploymentstrategyandcurrentshearonpelagiclonglineshoaling> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Effects of the gear deployment strategy and current shear on pelagic longline shoaling
Historical longline catch per unit effort (CPUE) constitutes the major time series used in tuna stock assessment to followthe trend in abundance since the beginning of the large-scale tuna fisheries. The efficiency and species composition of a longline fishing operations essentially depends on the overlap in the vertical and spatial distribution between hooks and species habitat. Longline catchability depends on the vertical distribution of hooks and the aim of our paper was to analyse principal factors affecting the deviation of observed longline hook depths from predicted values. Since observed hook depth is usually shallower than predicted, this deviation is called longline shoaling.We evaluate the accuracy of hook depth distribution estimated from a theoretical catenary model commonly used in longline CPUE standardizations. Temperature-depth recorders (TDRs) were deployed on baskets of a monitored longline. Mainline shapes and maximum fishing depths were similar to gear configurations commonly used to target both yellowfin and bigeye tuna by commercial longliners in the central part of the South Pacific Ocean. Our working hypothesis assumes that the maximum fishing depth reached by the mainline depends on the gear configuration (sag ratio, mainline length per basket), the fishing tactics (bearing of the setting) and environmental variables characterizing water mass dynamics (wind stress, current velocity and shear). Based on generalized additive models (GAMs) simple transformations are proposed to account for the non-linearity between the shoaling and explanatory variables. Then, generalized linear models (GLMs) were fit to model the effects of explanatory variables on the longline shoaling. Results indicated that the shoaling (absolute aswell as relative) was significantly influenced by (1) the shape of the mainline (i.e., the tangential angle), which is the strongest predictor, and (2) the current shear and the direction of setting. Geometric forcing (i.e. transverse versus in-line) between the environment and the longline set is shown for the first time from in situ experimental fishing data. Results suggest that a catenary model that does not take these factors into consideration provides a biased estimate of the vertical distribution of hooks and must be used with caution in CPUEs standardization methods. Since catchability varies in time and space we discuss how suitable data could be routinely collected onboard commercial fishing vessels in order to estimate longline catchability for stock assessments.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved..



434) Recherche du mot : cannery (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/cannery)
1/362: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

2/363: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.



435) Recherche du mot : Peau bleue (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/prionace_glauca)


436) Recherche du mot : Bluenose warehou (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/hyperoglyphe_antarctica)


437) Recherche du mot : Cape hen (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/procellaria_aequinoctialis)


438) Recherche du mot : TOPEX/POSÉIDON (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/topexPoseidon)


439) Recherche du mot : Ecologie trophique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/trophic_ecology)


440) Recherche du mot : Mackerel scad (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/decapterus_macarellus)


441) Recherche du mot : brassy chub (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/kyphosus_vaigiensis)


442) Recherche du mot : Scomberomorus spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_spp)


443) Recherche du mot : Plectropomus pessuliferus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/plectropomus_pessuliferus)


444) Recherche du mot : MAURICE (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_MUS_PLU)


445) Recherche du mot : BFT (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bft)
1/364: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ayearclasscurveanalysistoestimatemortalityofatlanticbluefintunacaughtbythenorwegianfisheryfromto> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : A year-class curve analysis to estimate mortality of Atlantic bluefin tuna caught by the Norwegian fishery from 1956 to 1979
At the ICCAT symposium on bluefin tuna that held in Santander in April 2008, Tangen et al.(2009) presented a first quantification of the fishing effort deployed by the Norwegian fishery targeting bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea. Using a year-class curve analysis on the Norwegian CPUE, this document presents the first estimates of mortality rates of Atlantic bluefin tuna that migrated north from the mid-1950s to the late 1970s. The results indicate that bluefin tuna would have experienced a total mortality rate (Z) of 0.2 to 0.4 yr-1 (i.e. F at around 0.3 yr-1) during the late 1950s, 0.2 yr-1 during the 1960s and 0.1 yr-1 afterwards (assuming M=0.1 yr-1). These results appear to be rather robust and consistent with the VPA estimates from the 1970s and early 1980s, albeit slightly higher. The fishing mortality rates experienced by bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea during the period 1956-1979 were thus significant (so that local overfishing may have occurred, especially during the 1950s), but lower than F estimated by year-class curve analysis in recent years (i.e. 1992-2004). This comparison between two distant periods of time during which BFT was significantly (highly) exploited tend to confirm, with new pieces of information, the pessimistic conclusions of the 2006 stock assessment.

2/365: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anattempttoevaluatetherecentmanagementregulationsoftheeastatlanticandmediterraneanbluefintunastockthroughasimplesimulationmodel> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : An attempt to evaluate the recent management regulations of the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock through a simple simulation model
This manuscript proposes a simple simulation model to investigate the implications to the resources of the
recent management regulations adopted for the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock. If
perfectly implemented, the new regulations on minimum size and closed fishing areas mostly lead to a
change in the selectivity pattern which moves towards older fish, so decreasing growth-overfishing. The
potential sustainable yields therefore considerably increase (almost double in comparison to those that
would be obtained without the new regulations) while the SSB can rapidly reach 20% of the virgin SSB. An
error of 20% in the implementation of these new regulations affects their efficiencies and does not seem to
allow the rebuilding of the SSB at a safe level. A significant increase in fishing mortality on older fish (ages
5+), due to the partial redeployment of the fisheries, affect even more strongly the rebuilding of the SSB. In
conclusion, the new regulations may appear sufficient to rebuild the SSB to a level > 20% of the virgin SSB,
if (and only if) they are perfectly implemented and don't generate any increase in the fishing effort on older
fish. In other words, control over all the fisheries that target BFT in the East Atlantic and the Mediterranean
is probably the key of the edifice.



446) Recherche du mot : Espèce ciblée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/target_species)


447) Recherche du mot : abyssal hill (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/abyssal_hill)


448) Recherche du mot : Katsuwonus pelamis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/katsuwonus_pelamis)
1/366: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.

2/367: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimatesofhistoricchangesintotalmortalityandselectivityforeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamisfromlengthcompositiondata> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Estimates of historic changes in total mortality and selectivity for  Eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) from length composition data
Catch-at-size data of the eastern Atlantic skipjack were used to estimate changes in total mortality from 1969 to 2007. We used a transitional model of mean length that generalized the Beverton-Holt mortality estimator to allow change in mortality rate under nonequilibrium conditions. Then, from homogeneous periods of time, length-converted catch curves were used to access qualitative changes in selectivity patterns for two surface fisheries (the baitboat fishery operating from Dakar, Senegal, and the European and associated purse seine fisheries). To explore the impact of catch on the mortality rate, a Bayesian change-point analysis was conducted on the catch time series to detect concomitant variation between mortality rates and catch. Finally, potential causes of these changes are discussed in relation to the implementation of new fishing technology, such fish aggregating devices (FAD). The general pattern depicted by total mortality is in agreement with previous knowledge on this fishery: a state of complete or practically complete exploitation during the nineties followed by the decrease in nominal purse seine fishing effort in the last decade, combined with the effect of a seasonal moratorium on FAD fishing operations. There was no evidence of a change in selectivity between the two contrasted periods of time considered: 1969-1979 and 1986-1999; the second period being characterized by the introduction of new technology onboard vessels. In contrast, the covariation over time between total catch and mortality rate three years later highlights the effect of the fishing pressure on the stock of eastern Atlantic skipjack.

3/368: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/driftingfishaggregationdevicescouldactasanecologicaltrapfortropicaltunaspecies> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Drifting fish aggregation devices could act as an ecological trap for tropical tuna species
Purse seine fishing on fish aggregating devices (FADs) has expanded considerably during
the last 15 yr in tropical tuna purse seine fisheries, and FADs currently account for about 70% of
their reported tuna catches. The scientific community has expressed concern over the consequences
of this fishing practice in terms of yield per recruit and suspected detrimental effects on FADassociated
tunas. To explore possible detrimental effects, we compared stomach fullness, fish plumpness,
growth rate, and migration behaviour between free school and drifting FAD-associated tunas
for skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis and yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares caught in the Atlantic
and Indian Oceans. Significant differences in fish plumpness and individual growth rates were found,
suggesting that individuals associated with drifting FADs were less healthy than those in free schools.
Since stomach fullness indicated that tunas associated with FADs eat less than those in free schools,
the difference in growth rate and condition could be the consequence of altered feeding patterns. For
each species, significant changes in migratory direction and displacement rates were observed in the
presence of drifting FADs. These findings support the hypothesis that FADs act as a super-stimulus,
misleading tunas to make inappropriate habitat selection. However, further studies are required to
investigate the long-term effect of FADs on the entire life cycle of tunas.

4/369: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mercurycontentincommercialpelagicfishanditsriskassessmentinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Mercury content in commercial pelagic fish and its risk assessment in the Western Indian Ocean
As top predators of pelagic food webs, large fish naturally bioaccumulate mercury (Hg). Determining Hg burdens in commercialized fish is essential considering the concern about effects of contaminants on human health and the legal thresholds that are therefore set for local consumption and/or exportation. Total Hg levels were measured in the muscular tissue of 183 fish of five commercially important species from the tropical zone of the Western Indian Ocean. All individuals were measured and sexed in order to study the impregnation of Hg with size and sex within each species. Values of Hg found in this part of the Indian Ocean were comparable to Hg in muscular tissue of the same species studied in other areas. The highest Hg levels were noted in Swordfish (Xiphias gladius) caught in waters surrounding Reunion Island (3.97 ± 2.67 μg.g−1 dry weight). Following the Swordfish, in decreasing order of Hg content, were the Yellowfin Tuna (Thunnus albacares) and the Skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), then the Common Dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) and the Wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri ). In the North of the Mozambique Channel, Swordfish had higher Hg levels than Yellowfin Tunas, and Dolphinfish exhibited intermediate Hg levels. The size of a fish was a determinating factor of its Hg burden, as was the species. Differences in size-normalized Hg levels were observed between the two study zones for Swordfish and Common Dolphinfish. Sex, in contrast, did not influence Hg levels suggesting that females and males have similar feeding habits. The muscular Hg levels presented here suggest that consumers of fish originating from theWestern Indian Ocean should limit themselves to one Swordfish based meal per week, or one fish meal a day if they choose to eat tuna or Common Dolphinfish.

5/370: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimatedgrowthrateoftheskipjacktunakatsuwonuspelamisfromtaggingsurveysconductedinthesenegaleseareawithinametaanalysisframeworkcoll> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Estimated growth rate of the Skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis) from tagging surveys conducted in the Senegalese area (1996-1999) within a meta-analysis framework Coll
Tagging data obtained during the research program called MAC are reanalyzed for skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis), using the von Bertalanffy-Fabens' growth model. Tagging surveys were initiated during 1996-1999 on-board commercial baitboats in Mauritanian and Senegalese waters. The analyses include the Francis' maximum likelihood estimation approaches accounting for growth variability as a function of the expected growth increment. Bearing in mind the generally high negative correlation between estimates of L∞ and K, and instead of fixing L∞ at an arbitrary level, we expressed L∞ as a simple function of K within a meta-analysis framework. Based on previous estimates of growth parameters for skipjack in the world ocean, the fit of this bioenergetic growth equation gave the following relationship: L∞ = 70.607 K – 0.231. An alternative von Bertalanffy-Fabens' growth model was used in which to L∞ was substituted by this function of K. After the comparison of different error structure models, the estimates corresponding to the best fit under the AIC criteria were obtained for K = 0.251 and, after re-introducing this value in the bioenergetic equation, L∞ = 97.258. These results are not in agreement with growth parameter estimates obtained previously in the same part of the Atlantic Ocean but are consistent with the majority of growth estimates obtained by other investigators using tagging, hard part or length-frequency data. The application of the Francis variance model suggests that the variability of the growth increment of skipjack is not constant.

6/371: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

7/372: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofthegrowthparametersoftheskipjacktunakatsuwonuspelamisamongareasintheeasternatlanticanalysisfromtaggingdatawithinametaanalysisapproach> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Variability of the growth parameters of the skipjack tuna (/Katsuwonus pelamis/) among areas in the eastern Atlantic: Analysis from tagging data within a meta-analysis approach
In order to assess the latitudinal variability in growth of the eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), conventional tagging data collected by the International Commission of the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) since the 1960s are reanalyzed using a modified version of the von Bertalanffy-Fabens growth model. An analysis of the latitudinal patterns of recaptures showed that the lowest mixing rate between northern and southern regions was evidenced at 10◦ N Latitude. Since it is theoretically admitted that growth parameters L∞ and K are negatively correlated, we substituted L∞ into the growth equation model by a simple bioenergetic function of K fitted from existing studies on skipjack growth parameters. The likelihood for the meta-analysis of growth is combined with the likelihoods from the two regional tagging data with the aim of estimating simultaneously K in both areas and to transfer adequately uncertainties associated with the different data sets. From this study, it was showed that fish inhabiting waters south of 10◦ N latitude can be expected to grow generally larger but at slower rate than in the North (L∞ = 112.34 cm vs. 89.38 cm, and K = 0.14 vs. 0.38, respectively). Our results are consistent with the range of growth estimates obtained in the Atlantic Ocean and in different parts of the World's oceans. In contrast, the estimates of L∞ and K done in the Senegalese region in the 1980s within the framework of the Skipjack Year Program, and traditionally applied by ICCAT, are not supported by the present study. The findings concerning the phenotypic plasticity exhibited by growth of skipjack among latitudinal regions suggest potential differences in fish population productivity and consequently imply that non-conventional stock assessment methods such as catch-at size/growth transition matrix per region could be used to assess the responses of skipjack to exploitation.

8/373: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/applicationoftheproceanmodeltotheeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamistunafishery> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Application of the Procean Model to the eastern atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) tuna fishery
The PROCEAN (PRoduction Catch / Effort ANalysis) model is a multi-fleet biomass dynamic
model developed in a Bayesian framework to conduct stock assessments based on catch and
effort time series data. PROCEAN was applied to the eastern component of the Atlantic
skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) to assess the current status of the stock and provide reference
points to fishery managers. Data included 8 time series of catch and effort data spanning from
1969 to 2006 and mostly standardised based on generalized linear modelling techniques.
Informative priors and constraints for some parameters were used to allow the model to
converge. Model fits were generally good but indicated increasing trends in the residuals for
some fishing fleets. Results suggested that the eastern Atlantic skipjack stock would be
underexploited, with a biomass in 2006 equal to 1.8 times the biomass at the maximum
sustainable yield (MSY) and a fishing mortality in 2006 equal to 30% of the fishing mortality at
MSY (FMSY). A sensitivity analysis performed to account for uncertainty in some input
parameters showed that FMSY estimates were robust to parameter changes while MSY estimates
were sensitive to the prior distribution for MSY. Based on the different model runs, the MSY
was estimated to be comprised between 152,000 and 185,000 t. The use of random walks on
catchability was useful for tracking changes in catchability and associated increasing fishing
power for some baitboat fishing fleets targeting skipjack.

9/374: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/commontrendsmodelincatchperunitofeffortforthetropicaltunas> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Common trends model in catch per unit of effort for the tropical tunas
We explored the usefulness of Dynamic factor analysis (DFA) to detect common patterns in the sets of CPUEs for Atlantic yellowfin (Thunnus albacores) and for eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), respectively. For yellowfin, the most appropriate model, in terms of AIC, identified two common trends. The 10 yellowfin CPUE series could be divided into 3 groups based on factor loadings. The grouping corresponds in part to the geographic location of the fisheries (i.e., the western Atlantic area for group 1 and the northeastern tropical Atlantic region for group 2). The fact that the first group is constituted by CPUEs obtained from 3 different fishing gears (pole and line, purse seine and longline), operating at different depth levels, suggests that the regional trend reflects more a sub-population response to a local exploitation rate than to environmental conditions. In light of the present results, the CPUEs should be combined respectively into two regional indices before performing a unique combined index. For skipjack, results are less conclusive and further studies with explanatory factors are required to account for the fact that this species is seldom targeted by the tuna fisheries.



449) Recherche du mot : Modis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/modis)


450) Recherche du mot : Makaire bécune (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_pfluegeri)


451) Recherche du mot : bouée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/bouey)


452) Recherche du mot : biological part (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/biological_part)


453) Recherche du mot : Pp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/primaryProduction)
1/375: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/enrichmentconcentrationandretentionprocessesinrelationtoanchovyengraulisringenseggsandlarvaedistributionsinthenorthernhumboldtupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Enrichment, concentration and retention processes in relation to anchovy (Engraulis ringens) eggs and larvae distributions in the northern Humboldt upwelling ecosystem
A Lagrangian model is used to simulate and quantify in the northern Humboldt upwelling ecosystem the processes of enrichment, concentration and retention, identified by Bakun [Bakun, A., 1996. Patterns in the ocean. Ocean processes and marine population (sic). University of California Sea Grant, California, USA, in cooperation with Centro de Investigaciones Biologicas de Noroeste, (sic) California Sur, Mexico, 323 pp.] as being important for the survival and recruitment of early life stages of pelagic fish. The method relies on tracking the positions of particles within water velocity fields generated by a three-dimensional hydrodynamic model. Simple criteria for considering particles as participating to enrichment, concentration or retention are used to derive indices of the three processes. We analyse the spatial distribution of and seasonal variability in these indices. The results are discussed in relation to anchovy (Engraulis ringens) eggs and larvae distributions off Peru, and to a comparable study conducted in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem.



454) Recherche du mot : Sarda sarda (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sarda_sarda)


455) Recherche du mot : Scomberomorus commerson (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_commerson)


456) Recherche du mot : pinnacle (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/pinnacle)
1/376: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/limitedmovementinbluerockfishsebastesmystinusinternalstructureofhomerange> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Limited movement in blue rockfish Sebastes mystinus: internal structure of home range
Home range has been estimated for a limited number of marine fishes; however, the use of space and timing of activities within the home range has rarely been studied. In addition, understanding movement patterns of exploited fish species has been identified as a crucial science gap, impeding informed marine reserve design. We used a radio-acoustic positioning telemetry (VRAP) system to monitor detailed movements of 10 blue rockfish Sebastes mystinus around shallow rock pinnacles and stands of bull kelp Nereocystis leutkeana in central California in September 2002, The mean home range was 8783 m(2) +/- 1137 SE; however, activity was highly concentrated in 1 to 3 core areas within each home range. Mean core areas measured 1350 m(2) 286 SE, but accounted for similar to 83 % of activity. All core areas were centered over rock pinnacles where rockfish were highly aggregated. Individuals exhibited high site fidelity and made only brief radial excursions away from these centers or moved directly from one pinnacle to the next along defined corridors. Patterns of diel activity and nocturnal sheltering corresponded closely with nautical twilight. Cores overlapped, but estimated locations of nocturnal shelters differed significantly among individuals. Movement patterns were correlated with wind velocity, upwelling index, water temperature and habitat structure.



457) Recherche du mot : province (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/province)
1/377: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/regionalfeedingpatternsofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Regional feeding patterns of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) of the western Indian Ocean
The food composition of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox Lowe, 1833) was studied in two areas belonging to different biogeographic provinces of the western Indian Ocean: Indian Monsoon Gyres Province (MONS) and Indian South Subtropical Gyre Province (ISSG). A total of 158 lancetfish were sampled during two research longline cruises in 1986-1987: 50 within the MONS, from the western equatorial area (between the EEZs of Kenya and Seychelles) and 108 within the ISSG, from the northern part of the EEZ of Mauritius (Saya-de-Malha Bank – Agalega Islands area). In the equatorial area, 135 prey items (of 18 families or higher taxa) were found in the lancetfish stomachs. In the waters of Mauritius, 476 prey items of 53 taxa were recorded. Regional variability in the feeding habits reflects province-specific differences in the prey abundance and the structure of pelagic communities of the intermediate trophic levels. Large predatory crustaceans dominate in the waters of MONS, while they are absent in the poor waters of ISSG. Foraging success of the lancetfish on non-evasive prey was 3.2 times higher in the MONS than in the ISSG. In overall, swimming crab, Hyperiidea, conspecifics, barracudina, hatchetfish, hammerjaw, and Polychaeta were the predominant prey of the lancetfish. Great differences in the food composition of ‘small' (FL

2/378: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/timeseriesanalysisoftunaandswordfishcatchesandclimatevariabilityintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Time series analysis of tuna and swordfish catches and climate variability in the Indian Ocean (1968-2003)
We analysed the patterns of variation that characterize 33 catch time series of large pelagic fishes exploited by the Japanese and Taiwanese longline fisheries in the Indian Ocean from 1968 to 2003. We selected four species, the yellowfin (Thunnus albacares), the bigeye (T. obesus), the albacore (T. alalunga), and the swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and aggregated data into five biogeographic provinces of Longhurst (2001).We carried out wavelet analyses, an efficient method to study non-stationary time series, in order to get the time-scale patterns of each signals. We then compared and grouped the different wavelet spectra using a multivariate analysis to identify the factors (species, province or fleet) that may influence their clustering. We also investigated the associations between catch time series and a large-scale climatic index, the DipoleMode Index (DMI), using cross wavelet analyses. Our results evidenced that the geographical province is more important than the species level when analyzing the 33 catch time series in the tropical Indian Ocean. The DMI further impacted the variability of tuna and swordfish catch time series at several periodic bands and at different temporal locations, and we demonstrated that the geographic locations modulated its impact.We discussed the consistency of time series fluctuations that reflect embedded information and complex interactions between biological processes, fishing strategies and environmental variability at different scales.

3/379: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/phytoplanktondistributionintheagulhassystemfromacoupledphysicalbiologicalmodel> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Phytoplankton distribution in the Agulhas system from a coupled physical-biological model
The greater Agulhas Current system has several components with high mesoscale turbulence. The phytoplankton distribution in the southwest Indian Ocean reflects this activity. We have used a regional eddy-permitting, coupled physical-biological model to study the physical-biological interactions and to address the main processes responsible for phytoplankton distribution in three different biogeochemical provinces: the southwest Subtropical Indian Gyre (SWSIG), the subtropical convergence zone (SCZ) and the subantarctic waters (SAW) south of South Africa. The biological model with four compartments (Nitrate-Phytoplankton-Zooplankton-Detritus) adequately reproduces the observed field of chlorophyll a. The phase of the strong modelled seasonality in the SWSIG is opposite to that of the SCZ that forms the southern boundary of the subtropical gyre. Phytoplankton concentrations are governed by the source-minus-sink terms, which are one order of magnitude greater than the dynamical diffusion and advection terms. North of 35°S, in the SWSIG, phytoplankton growth is limited by nutrients supply throughout the year. However, deeper stratification, enhanced cross-frontal transport and higher detritus remineralization explain the simulated higher concentrations of phytoplankton found in winter in the SWSIG. The region between 35° and 40S constitutes a transition zone between the SCZ and the oligotrophic subtropical province. Horizontal advection is the main process bringing nutrients for phytoplankton growth. The front at 34 °S represents a dynamical barrier to an extension further to the north of this advection of nutrients. Within the SCZ, primary production is high during spring and summer. This high productivity depletes the nutrient standing stock built up during winter time. In winter, nutrients supply in the convergence zone is indeed large, but the deep mixing removes phytoplankton from the euphotic zone and inhibits photosynthesis, yielding lower surface chlorophyll a concentrations. Waters south of the Subantarctic Front have a summer biomass close to that of frontal waters and higher than for subtropical waters. However, these simulated concentrations are slightly higher than the observed ones suggesting that limitation by iron and/or silica may play a role.



458) Recherche du mot : Halieutique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/halieutique)
1/380: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bilandelutilisationdesmethodesvisuellesenhalieutique> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Bilan de l'utilisation des méthodes visuelles en halieutique
Pour faire progresser les connaissances sur l'écosystème marin, il est indispensable d'améliorer les méthodes d'acquisition de données. Le  besoin en est renforcé par les incertitudes liées aux données de captures et l'inaccessibilité des zones protégées et des terrains accidentés aux engins de chalutage traditionnels. Dans cette perspective, les méthodes visuelles offrent des avancées. La campagne Vital (août 2002) avec le robot téléguidé Victor 6000 et la campagne Mertail (août 2004) avec l'engin tracté Merlin ont permis d'évaluer le potentiel de l'approche visuelle pour l'étude des communautés de poissons profonds (Vital) et celles du plateau continental (Mertail).

2/381: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/propositionspourrenforcerlesliensauseindelacommunautehalieutiquedelifremeretdelird> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Propositions pour renforcer les liens au sein de la communauté halieutique de l'Ifremer et de l'IRD


3/382: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/unobservatoirecommeoutildecooperation> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Un observatoire comme outil de coopération
L'Observatoire thonier hébergé par le Centre
de recherche halieutique méditerranéenne et tropicale
de Sète vient de décrocher sa certification ISO 9001
pour trois ans. Une consécration et un gage d'avenir
pour cet outil de suivi des pêches thonières tropicales.

4/383: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/architectureintegreedunsystemedevisualisationcartographiquedesstatistiquesdepeche> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Architecture intégrée d'un système de visualisation cartographique des statistiques de pêche
La dimension spatiale constitue l'une des composantes principales de la
visualisation des statistiques de pêche. Elle s'appuie en particulier sur la mise en relation d'un
support cartographique et de données statistiques. Depuis quelques années, à ces deux objets
(cartes et données) s'est également rajoutée le souci de leur description. Ces informations
supplémentaires qui constituent la méta information sont structurées en fonction de normes
précises propres au domaine géographique.
Les besoins qui sont exprimés au travers des divers projets au sein desquels intervient l'Unité
de service OSIRIS se doivent de prendre en compte tous ces aspects afin de pouvoir répondre
au mieux aux attendus d'un système d'information halieutique.

5/384: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/emeforumhalieumetrique> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : 7ème Forum Halieumétrique,
Du plancton dans la mer jusqu'au poisson dans l'assiette du consommateur, une grande diversité de processus
s'enchaînent ou s'entrecroisent dans un secteur halieutique. D'une extrémité à l'autre de ce réseau les échelles
de taille des entités, leur étendue spatiale ou leur caractéristique de temps changent.
Sur ce dernier aspect, la dynamique d'un système halieutique est par exemple la combinaison de phénomènes
naturels plutôt à grande période (e.g., changements globaux) et de dynamiques humaines plutôt à grande
fréquence (e.g., plonger une ligne dans l'eau). De plus, les échelles de temps caractéristiques ne constituent pas
un ensemble fini mais plutôt un continuum, des phénomènes les plus lents aux plus instantanés.
Pouvoir appréhender la dynamique d'ensemble d'un tel système suppose donc de pouvoir rendre compte au
mieux de ces phénomènes intervenant dans le temps court ou le temps long.
La communication s'attachera à présenter cette problématique autour de trois aspects illustratifs :
1. La situation et les contraintes posées aux systèmes de régulation du fait de cette multiplicité d'échelles
temporelles et les dispositifs de recherche qui doivent être associés à ce type de contrainte.
2. Les contraintes d'observation liées au suivi, avec des ressources en général limitées, de cette diversité
d'échelles temporelles et les modalités pour y répondre dans le cadre de la conception d'observatoires.
3. Les contraintes de représentation liées à la prise en compte de phénomènes dont les échelles de
temps caractéristiques sont différentes et les artefacts de modélisation qui peuvent permettent d'y
répondre.
Des exemples tirés de travaux réalisés sur les pêches en Afrique de l'Ouest serviront de support pour une
discussion d'ordre général, et exploratoire, sur les relations et contraintes liées à la cohabitation entre temps
court et temps long.

6/385: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/emeforumhalieumetrique> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : 7ème Forum Halieumétrique,
Du plancton dans la mer jusqu'au poisson dans l'assiette du consommateur, une grande diversité de processus
s'enchaînent ou s'entrecroisent dans un secteur halieutique. D'une extrémité à l'autre de ce réseau les échelles
de taille des entités, leur étendue spatiale ou leur caractéristique de temps changent.
Sur ce dernier aspect, la dynamique d'un système halieutique est par exemple la combinaison de phénomènes
naturels plutôt à grande période (e.g., changements globaux) et de dynamiques humaines plutôt à grande
fréquence (e.g., plonger une ligne dans l'eau). De plus, les échelles de temps caractéristiques ne constituent pas
un ensemble fini mais plutôt un continuum, des phénomènes les plus lents aux plus instantanés.
Pouvoir appréhender la dynamique d'ensemble d'un tel système suppose donc de pouvoir rendre compte au
mieux de ces phénomènes intervenant dans le temps court ou le temps long.
La communication s'attachera à présenter cette problématique autour de trois aspects illustratifs :
1. La situation et les contraintes posées aux systèmes de régulation du fait de cette multiplicité d'échelles
temporelles et les dispositifs de recherche qui doivent être associés à ce type de contrainte.
2. Les contraintes d'observation liées au suivi, avec des ressources en général limitées, de cette diversité
d'échelles temporelles et les modalités pour y répondre dans le cadre de la conception d'observatoires.
3. Les contraintes de représentation liées à la prise en compte de phénomènes dont les échelles de
temps caractéristiques sont différentes et les artefacts de modélisation qui peuvent permettent d'y
répondre.
Des exemples tirés de travaux réalisés sur les pêches en Afrique de l'Ouest serviront de support pour une
discussion d'ordre général, et exploratoire, sur les relations et contraintes liées à la cohabitation entre temps
court et temps long.

7/386: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/sortirdelacrisehalieutique> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Sortir de la crise halieutique
La situation des pêcheries marines est critique. Il faut très vite engager
une gestion rigoureuse des écosystèmes marins, unique façon de garantir
un avenir aux pêcheurs... et aux poissons.



459) Recherche du mot : Espírula (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/spirula_spirula)


460) Recherche du mot : CAOI (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/groupCTOI)


461) Recherche du mot : fosse (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/trench)


462) Recherche du mot : Anoplogaster cornuta (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/anoplogaster_cornuta)


463) Recherche du mot : Thon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/tuna)
1/387: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lethonrougeunavenirmenace> : SCORE = 2.4566321
Doc : Le thon rouge : un avenir menacé ?


2/388: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/menacessurlethonrouge> : SCORE = 2.866071
Doc : Menaces sur le thon rouge


3/389: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/pecheursdethonsetconservationdesressourcesdehautemermenacessurlethonrougedemediterranee> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Pêcheurs de thons et conservation des ressources de haute mer : menaces sur le thon rouge de Méditerranée ?




464) Recherche du mot : Alopias pelagicus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alopias_pelagicus)


465) Recherche du mot : Courrant (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/current)


466) Recherche du mot : Goose barnacle (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lepas_anatifera)


467) Recherche du mot : Matériel de marquage (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/tagging_gear)


468) Recherche du mot : Carangids nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carangidae)


469) Recherche du mot : vessel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/vessel)
1/390: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usinglocalecologicalknowledgelektoprovideinsightonthetunapurseseinefleetsoftheindianoceanusefulformanagement> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Using local ecological knowledge (LEK) to provide insight on the tuna purse seine fleets of the Indian Ocean useful for management
The purse seine fishery in the Western Indian Ocean is dominated by Spanish and French vessels that rely heavily on the use of drifting fish aggregation devices (DFADs) to capture tropical tuna species (skipjack, yellowfin and bigeye tuna). This study uses local ecological knowledge (LEK) obtained through standardized interviews of fishing masters to compare and characterize the body of local ecological knowledge, fishing technology and fishing strategies of both fleets, with the goal of obtaining useful information for the management of the fishery. A notable difference between fleets was the number of DFADs actively monitored per vessel at any given time, which was much higher for Spanish vessels (ca. 60 versus 20 DFADs). Spanish vessels also achieved higher vessel CPUE (catch per DFAD set) than their French counterparts. The use of supply vessels to manage, monitor and protect productive DFADs, and the latest satellite-based technology to track and remotely monitor DFAD aggregations is restricted to the Spanish fleet. The French do not use supply vessels and deploy less sophisticated tracking buoys. These technological disparities resulted in some fishing strategy differences between both fleets, but few differences were found in the knowledge of tuna behavior accumulated by the fishers.

2/391: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingperformanceandinformationexchangebetweenfishingvesselswithartificialneuralnetworks> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Modeling performance and information exchange between fishing vessels with artificial neural networks
A fishery is simulated in which 20 artificial vessels learn to make decisions through an artificial neural network in order to search for schools of fish among the available fishing grounds. Three scenarios with different degrees of variability, including uncertainty in the searching process, are considered. The simulation model accounts for the main features commonly observed in a purse seine tuna fishery in a time and a space scale. Vessel strategies are chosen by the artificial neural network, on the basis of the following decision criteria: information concerning time searching in a specific area, previous performance in this area, knowledge of the quality of surrounding fishing grounds, presence of other vessels fishing actively and trip length. An analysis of the effects of sharing information between vessels is done and this was compared to individual artificial fishing vessels. In general, a group of fishing vessels show higher performance than individual vessels. A convex performance comparison curve for several group sizes is found in all scenarios considered. The optimum group size differs according to the variability of the artificial world. At bigger group sizes performance decreases, probably due to competition and depletion effects of some fishing grounds.

3/392: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/omnidirectionalmultibeamsonarmonitoringapplicationsinfisheriesscience> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Omnidirectional multibeam sonar monitoring: applications in fisheries science
Data exploitation, acquired by medium-frequency omnidirectional multibeam sonar, enables original studies in fisheries research but is seldom used despite the fact that such equipment is found on most fishing vessels and a number of research vessels. This is the only system for real-time monitoring of fish schools within a horizontal omnidirectional plane about a vessel or a buoy. Between 1996 and 2001, we used two standard omnidirectional sonars and developed new methodologies for exploiting their specific acoustic data according to two main sampling schemes: 'prospecting', including fishing and searching operations, and 'drifting', as with an instrumental buoy system or aboard a stationary vessel. We present a complete method for continuous data acquisition from aboard a research vessel or commercial boat, with automated data extraction by picture analysis and a data processing method. Two cases of data analysis are considered: the first on a school-by-school basis, the 'single school' mode; the second taking into account all fish schools detected within the sonar sampling volume, the 'cluster' mode. Elementary sonar information is divided into five categories that comprise 24 survey and sonar parameters and 55 school, cluster and fisher behaviour descriptors. We review the applications of these categories and discuss perspectives for their use in fisheries science. If the sonar system enables the evaluation of the effects of vessel avoidance on fish school biomass assessment, no accurate abundance estimate can be provided by a simple sonar echo-integration process. Omnidirectional sonar data can be used to analyse collectively the fish schools' swimming speed, kinematics in terms of diffusion and migration, aggregative dynamics as school splitting and merging indexes, spatial characteristics of clusters such as school density, 2D structure and fisher behaviour. The prospect of integrating such data into a fish school database, including multifrequency echo-sounder and lateral multibeam (3D) sonar data combined with a species recognition method, will enable a complete view of fish school behaviour and consequently the adoption of accurate fisheries management methods.

4/393: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabiladultothunnusalbacaresdelaflotadecercotropicaleuropeaeneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Actualizacion de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil adulto (thunnus albacares) de la flota de cerco tropical europea en el oceano atlantico de 1980 a 2006
This document presents a standardized index update of adult yellowfin (>30 kg) of tropical purse seine fleets in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006. The data used were taken from spear fishing logbooks and detailed information of the fleet. The standardization has been carried out by generalized linear models (GLM) using the delta model. The standardized indices are obtained from the GLM model estimations: one is calculated from the least squares means (LSMeans) and another from the annual averages of the adjusted values. The variability of the latter is lower. Therefore, in this case, it is a more adequate index to be used in assessment models. The year, country, category, age of vessel and catches of skipjack tuna, which is the other target species of these fleets, were considered as explanatory variables.

5/394: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwppt> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : IOTC 2008-WPPT-26
Standardized yellowfin and skipjack catch rates of the European purse seine fleets in the Indian ocean from 1984 to 2007 using generalized linear models are presented. Different indexes based on logbooks data for the yellowfin free school catch and yellowfin and skipjack FAD catch have been standardized considering time-space strata, vessel category, as well as environmental effects as explicative variables.
1

6/395: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactsofkelvinwaveforcingintheperuhumboldtcurrentsystemscenariosofspatialreorganizationsfromphysicstofishers> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Impacts of Kelvin wave forcing in the Peru Humboldt Current system: Scenarios of spatial reorganizations from physics to fishers
Because climate change challenges the sustainability of important fish populations and the fisheries they support, we need to understand how large scale climatic forcing affects the functioning of marine ecosystems. In the Humboldt Current system (HCS), a main driver of climatic variability is coastally-trapped Kelvin waves (KWs), themselves originating as oceanic equatorial KWs. Here we (i) describe the spatial reorganizations of living organisms in the Humboldt coastal system as affected by oceanic KWs forcing, (ii) quantify the strength of the interactions between the physical and biological component dynamics of the system, (iii) formulate hypotheses on the processes which drive the redistributions of the organisms, and (iv) build scenarios of space occupation in the HCS under varying KW forcing. To address these questions we explore, through bivariate lagged correlations and multivariate statistics, the relationships between time series of oceanic KW amplitude (TAO mooring data and model-resolved baroclinic modes) and coastal Peruvian oceanographic data (SST, coastal upwelled waters extent), anchoveta spatial distribution (mean distance to the coast, spatial concentration of the biomass, mean depth of the schools), and fishing fleet statistics (trip duration, searching duration, number of fishing sets and catch per trip, features of the foraging trajectory as observed by satellite vessel monitoring system). Data sets span all or part of January 1983 to September 2006. The results show that the effects of oceanic KW forcing are significant in all the components of the coastal ecosystem, from oceanography to the behaviour of the top predators – fishers. This result provides evidence for a bottom-up transfer of the behaviours and spatial stucturing through the ecosystem. We propose that contrasting scenarios develop during the passage of upwelling versus downwelling KWs. From a predictive point of view, we show that KW amplitudes observed in the mid-Pacific can be used to forecast which system state will dominate the HCS over the next 2–6 months. Such predictions should be integrated in the Peruvian adaptive fishery management.

7/396: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/vascocirenemeasurementssupplementdecireneairseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : 'Vasco–Cirene measurements', supplément de "Cirene: Air–Sea Interactions in the Seychelles–Chagos Thermocline Ridge Region"
T
he Vasco–Cirene field experiment, in January–
February 2007, targeted the Seychelles–Chagos
thermocline ridge (SCTR) region, with the main purpose of investigating Madden–Julian Oscillation (MJO)-related SST events. The Validation of the Aeroclipper System under Convective Occurrences (Vasco) experiment (Duvel et al. 2009) and Cirene cruise were designed to provide complementary views of air–sea interaction in the SCTR region. While meteorological balloons were deployed from the Seychelles as a part of Vasco, the Research Vessel (R/V) Suroît was cruising the SCTR region as a part of Cirene.[...]

8/397: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/homingabilitiesofdolphinfishcoryphaenahippurusdisplacedfromfishaggregatingdevicesfadsdeterminedusingacoustictelemetry> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Homing abilities of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) displaced from fish aggregating devices (FADs) determined using acoustic telemetry
We conducted displacement experiments using acoustic tags to study the orientation abilities of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) around FADs. Eleven fish were passively monitored using coded transmitters and acoustic receivers attached to FADs, while seven others were actively tracked with a vessel using continuous acoustic tags equipped with pressure sensors. All these 18 dolphinfish were captured close to a FAD and released between 70 and 1720 m from it. Five fish out of the 14 that were displaced at more than 360 m from a FAD (estimated detection range of our acoustic receivers, defining the target area during our experiment) returned to the target area. With one individual successfully returning to the target area after having been released at 1600 m from the FAD, the rate of return of fish released up to this distance was significantly higher than expected if they were moving at random, but many fish released at intermediate distances moved in other directions. Based on detailed statistical analysis of the return score, we estimated that dolphinfish are able to orientate towards a FAD area from at least 820 m. The connection between our definition of the target area and the association area of dolphinfish around a FAD is discussed, as well as the impact of stress and motivation in the rates of return observed. More experiments should be conducted to improve this first estimate. Specific experiments should also be designed to more accurately determine the association range of fish around FADs and their motivation to orientate towards FADs.

9/398: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/levytrajectoriesofperuvianpurseseinersasanindicatorofthespatialdistributionofanchovyengraulisringens> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Levy trajectories of Peruvian purse-seiners as an indicator of the spatial distribution of anchovy (Engraulis ringens)
Analogous to other top predators foraging on patchy resources, the spatial behaviour of fishers provides information on the spatial organization of fish. Focusing on the Peruvian anchovy purse-seine fishery, vessel monitoring system data are used to describe fishing vessels' trajectories, and acoustic survey data to characterize anchovy spatial distribution. Vessel trajectories were analysed in terms of move-length distribution, whereas fish distribution was characterized by spatial extent, concentration, and fractal dimension. Fishers perform Levy flights that can be characterized by a single statistic (mu); mu is significantly correlated with the fractal dimension of fish distribution. It is argued that the Levy statistic is a good candidate for an ecosystem indicator that might contribute to realtime monitoring of ecosystems.

10/399: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/scaleinvariantmovementsoffishermenthesameforagingstrategyasnaturalpredators> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Scale invariant movements of fishermen: the same foraging strategy as natural predators
We analyzed the movement of fishing vessels during fishing trips in order to understand how fishermen behave in space while searching for fish. For that purpose we used hourly geo-referenced positions of vessels, provided by a satellite vessel monitoring system, for the entire industrial fleet (809 vessels) of the world's largest single species fishery (Peruvian anchovy, Engraulis ringens) from December 1999 to March 2003. Observed trajectories of fishing vessels are well modeled by Lévy random walks, suggesting that fishermen use a stochastic search strategy which conforms to the same search statistics as non-human predators. We show that human skills (technology, communication, or others) do not result in the fishermen's spatial behavior being fundamentally different from that of animal predators. With respect to probability of prey encounter, our results suggest that fishermen, on average, evolved an optimal movement pattern (μ = 2.00) among the family of Lévy random walks. This Lagrangian approach opens several perspectives in terms of operational management of the pelagic fish stock.

11/400: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/catchandeffortdataonsoviettunapurseseinefisheriesintheindianoceanbasedondailyradioreportsdatabase> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Catch and effort data on Soviet tuna purse seine fisheries in the Indian Ocean based on daily radio reports database.
General description of YugNIRO database on Soviet tuna purse seine fisheries in the Indian Ocean is presented. Principal sources of the information for database were daily radio reports on operations and on catch composition of purse seiners. Vessel types, temporal schedule of its activities, total catch and data quality, database structure is described. This paper is a supplement for a fine-scale (1-degree/month) catch statistics and activities dataset, presented to IOTC Secretariat.

12/401: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/standardizedcpueforjuvenileyellowfinskipjackandbigeyetunafromtheeuropeanpurseseinefleetintheatlanticoceanfromto> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Standardized CPUE for juvenile yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tunafrom the european purse seine fleet in the atlantic ocean from 1991 to 2006
In this document three abundance indices are obtained for the juveniles of tropical tunas (yellowfin (≤30Kg.), skipjack and bigeye of European purse seine fishery in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006 using generalized linear models (delta-lognormal model). Catch and effort data come from detailed daily logbooks. Catch rates are modelled using the delta lognormal model. The method estimates a combined CPUE of the three species from aggregated catches, and the proportion of catches for each species, so the final individual abundance indices are calculated multiplying both estimators for each species. Explanatory variables used in the analysis are: year, zone, quarter, harvest capacity, country, and starting date of the vessel. Year and zone are the most explanatory factors of variability in CPUEs and vessel characteristics have a minor explanatory effect in observed catch rates.

13/402: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acousticdatacollectedduringandbetweenbottomtrawlstationsconsistencyandcommontrends> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Acoustic data collected during and between bottom trawl stations: consistency and common trends
Acoustic data are often collected during bottom trawl surveys. Their use can potentially improve the precision and accuracy of fish abundance estimates if acoustic data collected between trawl stations are consistent with those collected during trawling operations. This question is addressed here through the analysis of 20 bottom trawl surveys (three survey areas and five different survey series) with coincident acoustic measurements during and between trawl stations. Firstly, on-station and underway acoustic data were compared using statistics computed globally over each survey (average vertical profiles, global indices of collocations, and spatial structures) for various combinations of depth layers. Secondly, we focussed on underway acoustic data recorded in the vicinity of stations, distinguishing between data recorded before and after the tows. On-station and underway acoustic data were highly consistent, and no systematic perturbation of the acoustic sign due to the presence of the gear a few hundred metres behind the vessel was observed.

14/403: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deepseaconferenceonthegovernanceandmanagementofdeepseafisheries> : SCORE = 0.30707902
Doc : Deep Sea 2003: Conference on the Governance and Management of Deep-sea Fisheries
INTRODUCTION: 
The growing capacity of fishermen to repeat fishing operations at some known locations thanks to, for instance, precise maps of past activity and global positioning systems (GPS), is becoming more apparent as fine-scale information on fishing activities becomes available. Aggregated declarations at the level of statistical square levels hides the fine-scale information and the possibility to analyze small-scale fishing strategies. When available, information on fishing effort such as observers' declarations or vessel monitoring system (VMS) reports may indicate that the tendency of specific-area repeat fishing is sometimes frequent (Rijnsdorp, van Mourik Broekman and Visser 2000). In this paper, we are concerned by the fact that small-scale fishing tactics may interfere in the relation between commercial catch per unit effort (CPUE) and indices of abundance and potentially reduce the relevancy of mean CPUE for resource analysis purposes. The relationship between CPUE and abundance can be biased (e.g. Hillborn and Walters 1987, Rahikainen and Kuikka 2002) as it is the product of several processes such as schooling behaviour of fish, variation in catchability, interactions between fishing vessels and spatial distribution of fishing effort.

In this paper, we consider the trawl fishery for Patagonian toothfish (Dissostichus eleginoides) off Kerguelen Islands in the Indian sector of the Southern Ocean. In spite of difficult conditions of exploitation, the fishery increased until the end of the 1990s. The fishery can be characterized in the context of this paper by the fact that (a) it is mono-specific - toothfish alone is caught, (b) fishermen do a lot of repetitive tows and (c), management rules changed a few years after the fishery started, switching from global to individual quotas. Making use of the spatio-temporal distribution of tows, Bez, De Oliveira and Duhamel (in press) showed that a mean depletion effect of 5 to 10 percent per tow exists under repetitive fishing for toothfish. This local depletion is stronger for icefish (Champsocephalus gunnari) and grey rockcod (Lepidonotothen squamifrons). However these local depletion effects are weak and the fluctuations observed around the decreasing trends can be attributed to changes in the fishing efficiencies from one tow to the next. The objective of this paper is to use the repetitive fishing to estimate fishing efficiency distributions and to interpret their changes with regards to the change in regulations.

Here, "local fishing efficiency" measures the capacity of a unit of effort to catch fish effectively accessible to fishing (Gascuel 1993). As with all components of catchability, the local fishing efficiency should be estimated with CPUEs based on the same underlying fish abundance, which is never possible. Robson (1966) circumvented this difficulty by assuming homogeneity of fish density over quadrats. Laurec (1977) used geostatistical tools to account for the differences between two CPUEs when using them. Here, we use the territorial behaviour of toothfish and the existence of a series of repetitive fishing to build ratios of consecutive CPUEs to estimate fishing efficiency probability distributions.



470) Recherche du mot : Paralepididae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/paralepididae)


471) Recherche du mot : Lophotidae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lophotidae)


472) Recherche du mot : Pterycombus petersii (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pterycombus_petersii)


473) Recherche du mot : Identifiant GBIF pour un taxon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/gbifId)


474) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus amblyrhynchos (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_amblyrhynchos)


475) Recherche du mot : taille moyenne de reproduction (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/reproduction_length)


476) Recherche du mot : Diodon hystrix (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diodon_hystrix)


477) Recherche du mot : Dorade coryphène commune (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/coryphaena_hippurus)


478) Recherche du mot : scarp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/escarpment)


479) Recherche du mot : is a bycacth of (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/is_discard_of)


480) Recherche du mot : Cape dolphin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/stenella_attenuata)


481) Recherche du mot : Lampris guttatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lampris_guttatus)


482) Recherche du mot : Octopus vulgaris (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/Octopus_vulgaris)
1/404: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/assessingtheimpactoffisheriesondemersalfishassemblagesofthemauritaniancontinentalshelfusingdominancecurves> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Assessing the impact of fisheries on demersal fish assemblages of the Mauritanian continental shelf, 1987–1999, using dominance curves
The assemblages of demersal fish and associated species of the Mauritanian continental
shelf are characterized on the basis of annual trawl surveys conducted during the period
1987e1999. Species composition is dominated by exploited species (Dentex spp., Pagellus
bellottii, and Octopus vulgaris). Dominance curves (Abundance Biomass Comparison
plots) were used to evaluate the impact of fisheries, which have increased in magnitude over
several decades. The diagnosis of a ‘‘stressed'' assemblage seems to converge with the
results of a similar study conducted off Senegal, but here there was no trend in impact
during the period of study. The sensitivity of the present results to the various ways of
considering the available taxonomic information is also analysed.

2/405: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/decadalenvironmentalandecologicalchangesinthecanarycurrentlargemarineecosystemandadjacentwaterspatternsofconnectionsandteleconnection> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Decadal environmental and ecological changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem and adjacent waters : Patterns of connections and teleconnection
In order to explore decadal changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem (LME), wind and SST data collected by merchant ships are extracted from the Comprehensive Ocean Atmosphere Data Set (COADS) database from 1950 to 1995 within sixteen boxes along the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from 10°N up to 43°N.  Potential biases are reviewed and discussed when considering long-term changes and large spatial resolution. The heterogeneity of the seasonal patterns in the Canary current is described.  Decadal environmental changes are explored using Sea Surface Temperature (SST) data.  In the early and mid-1970s, an intensive cooling had a large latitudinal extension that affected the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from Spain to Senegal.  This cooling period was followed by a warming period, which started in the 1980s. Fisheries, fish stock abundance as well as fish population distributions have drastically changed during the last five decades. The sardine populations off Morocco widely fluctuated in a disconnected manner and a substantial increase in biomass was observed in fishing zone C (located between 20°N and 27°N) during the mid-1970s and mid-1980s. Several outbursts of fish populations (Micromesistius poutassou, Macrorhamphosus scolopax and M. gracilis, Octopus vulgaris, Balistes carolinensis) were observed during the last three decades in the Canary Current. In the case of the latter species it was connected with the outburst populations which took place in the Gulf of Guinea LME.  Upwelling intensity and sea surface temperature are strongly linked and are thought to affect both spatial distribution and abundance of fish in the Canary Current LME.  Ecosystems appear to be connected at very large scales through climatic teleconnection between the Northern and Central Atlantic but also between the Pacific and the Atlantic as the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index and the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events seem to have a major impact on the dynamics of the upwelling in the Canary Current.

3/406: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialconsiderationsforthedakhlastockofoctopusvulgarisindicatorspatternsandfisheriesinteractions> : SCORE = 2.288832
Doc : Spatial considerations for the Dakhla stock of Octopus vulgaris: indicators, patterns and fisheries interactions
The common octopus (Octopus vulgaris) is the target species of the cephalopod fishery that exploits two stocks, Dakhla and Cap Blanc, off southern Morocco (26 degrees N 21 degrees N), an area commonly referred to as the Saharan Bank. Octopus vulgaris is also one of the most abundant demersal species in this highly productive area, and plays a key role in the upwelling ecosystem. Spatial patterns of the main phases of the octopus vulgaris life cycle of the Dakhla stock are described, using trawl surveys carried out twice a year from 1998 to 2003. Using geostatistics and spatial indicators, mature females and juveniles are analysed and mapped to characterize the main features of the spawning and recruitment phases. There are clear distinctions between the spatial patterns of the spawning and recruitment phases: juveniles are more coastal, less spatially dispersed, more anisotropically distributed, and more patchy. Our results suggest that the spatial pattern of the Octopus vulgaris Dakhla stock is different from that of the same species in other ecosystems such as the Mediterranean. GIS reveals that the spawning-stock biomass is globally more accessible to the industrial fleet than to the artisanal one, a finding contrary to contemporary thinking and with important resource management implications.

4/407: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/combiningfishingclosurewithminimumsizeofcapturetoimproveoctopusproductioninsenegalesewatersanevaluationusinganalyticalmodelling> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Combining fishing closure with minimum size of capture to improve Octopus production in Senegalese waters: an evaluation using analytical modelling,
The dynamics of the Octopus vulgaris (Cuvier, 1797) population in Senegalese waters is
modelled to evaluate the potential impact of combining temporal fishing closure and minimum size of
capture on the production of this stock. The study is based on an analytical approach (cohort analysis
and simulation of captures on a monthly basis) adapted to the biological characteristics of O. vulgaris,
a short lifespan species. Several combinations of the two policies (minimum size and fishing closure)
are tested to complement the results of previous studies that evaluated each of the two strategies
separately, and in addition, to account for the fact that a positive synergistic effect can be expected.
The model covers the exploitation period from 1996 to 1999. As in previous simulations (of separate
effects), the present results focus on the instability of the responses (positive or negative, significant
or not, depending on the situation that prevailed each year) of the octopus stock to such policies. As
a consequence it is difficult to identify the ideal combination of closure and size limits that would
ensure a substantial improvement in production every year. Nevertheless, a 350g or 500g minimum size
policy seems to be profitable when combined with a two-month fishing closure in July–August. The
final discussion focuses on the fact that, in addition to its regional range, the present study presents
also a broader interest because the methodology proposed here aims to be applicable to other
cephalopods and short lived species fisheries.

5/408: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/diagnosticdeletatdustockdepoulpeoctopusvulgarismauritaniensyntheseetnouvellesevaluationsparlapprocheglobale> : SCORE = 2.866071
Doc : Diagnostic de l'état du stock de poulpe (Octopus vulgaris) mauritanien : Synthèse et nouvelles évaluations par l'approche globale.




483) Recherche du mot : système de suivi des navires par satellite (VMS) (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/VMS)


484) Recherche du mot : Programme Palangre Réunionais (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/projectPPR)


485) Recherche du mot : passerelle (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/passerelle)
1/409: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lespoissonsmesopelagiquesdansleschainesalimentairesuneapprocheparlesisotopesstablesducarboneetdelazotedanslecanaldemozambique> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Les poissons mesopélagiques dans les chaînes alimentaires : une approche par les isotopes stables du Carbone et de l'azote dans le Canal de Mozambique
Ce travail a pour objectif l'étude de la structure trophique des organismes mésopélagiques
dans le canal de Mozambique (océan Indien). Les organismes mésopélagiques sont des
proies préférentielles des grands poissons pélagiques comme les thons et les espèces
associées aux thons (le lancier, l'albacore, le patudo et l'espadon ; Potier et al. 2007). Les
organismes mésopélagiques se nourrissent directement sur le phytoplancton et le
zooplancton. Ils occupent les niveaux intermédiaires dans les chaînes alimentaires et
forment une « passerelle » entre les niveaux inférieurs et supérieurs. On dispose déjà de
connaissances sur les prédateurs de ces organismes, mais les organismes mésopélagiques
n'ont pas encore fait l'objet de beaucoup d'études.
Dans ce travail, nous avons utilisé les isotopes stables du Carbone et de l'Azote pour étudier
la position trophique relative de différentes espèces de poissons mésopélagiques. Les
différentes étapes pour obtenir la signature isotopique sont détaillées. Les premiers résultats
montrent une grande variabilité dans les signatures de l'Azote. Cette variabilité est mise en
relation avec l'habitat sur la verticale des différentes espèces et la position géographique
dans le Canal de Mozambique. Les valeurs sont comparées à celles obtenues sur leurs
prédateurs (thons, espadons et lanciers) et interprétées en fonction des régimes alimentaires
connus des différents prédateurs.



486) Recherche du mot : Trevignon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/trevignon)


487) Recherche du mot : Argentinidae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/argentinidae)


488) Recherche du mot : Remote sensing (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/remote_sensing)
1/410: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/areviewofanalyticalapproachestoinvestigateseabirdenvironmentinteractions> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : A review of analytical approaches to investigate seabird-environment interactions
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution, and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In this paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour, and their environment in order to assess current trends, weaknesses, and future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated; and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where in most cases no behavioral information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. A vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird-environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, meso-scale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modeling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multi-scale, and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

2/411: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/openenvironmentaldatabasesforopenseafisheriesbiologists> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Open environmental databases for open-sea fisheries biologists
The present working document aims to list the main environmental databases (including in-situ
observations, remote-sensing data and ocean models outputs), that are currently available on the Net
and of interest in open-sea fisheries biology and ecology.

3/412: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analyticalapproachestoinvestigatingseabirdenvironmentinteractionsareview> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Analytical approaches to investigating seabird–environment interactions: a review
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In the present paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour and their environment, in order to assess current trends, weaknesses and the future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where, in most cases, no behavioural information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. The vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas a few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird–environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, mesoscale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modelling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multiscale and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

4/413: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/generalisedmodelofprimaryproductioninthesouthernbenguelaupwellingsystem> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Generalised model of primary production in the southern Benguela upwelling system
We provide a proof-of-concept demonstration using a novel method for estimating depth-integrated distributions of chlorophyll from archives of data from ships, buoys or gliders combined with remotely sensed data of sea surface temperature (SST) and surface chlorophyll a (chl a) from satellites. Our area of application has contrasting hydrographic regimes, which include the dynamic southern Benguela upwelling system and the stratified waters of the Agulhas Bank, South Africa. The method involves using self-organising maps (SOMs), a type of artificial neural network, to identify ‘typical' chl a profiles regardless of their statistical form, provided several of a similar shape have been found in the training set. These are arranged in a linear array, ranging from uniform profiles low in chl a to profiles with high surface or subsurface peaks. We then use generalised modelling to relate these characteristic profiles to remotely sensed surface features, viz. surface chl a and SST, as well as area, season, and water depth (a proxy for distance offshore). The model accounts for 87% of the variability in chl a profile and is used to predict the type of profile likely for each pixel in monthly remote sensing composites of SST and surface chl a and then to estimate integrated chl a and primary production with the aid of a light model. Primary production peaks in mid-summer, reaching 5 mgC m–2 d–1 locally, with an average over the whole area and all seasons of 1.4 mgC m–2 d–1. Seasonal variation is greatest in the southern part of the west coast, and lowest in the stratified southeast. Annual primary production for the southern Benguela region including the Agulhas Bank is ca. 156 million tC yr–1. This is the most robust estimate of primary production in the Benguela system to date because it combines the spatial and temporal coverage provided by remote sensing with realistic vertical chl a profiles.



489) Recherche du mot : Agulhas current ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/agulhas_current_ecosystem)


490) Recherche du mot : agrégat d'éléments biotiques et abiotiques (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/aggregateBioticAbioticEntity)


491) Recherche du mot : Atún blanco (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_alalunga)


492) Recherche du mot : Petrus rupestris (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/petrus_rupestris)


493) Recherche du mot : poche (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/poche)


494) Recherche du mot : Atlantic bonito (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sarda_sarda)


495) Recherche du mot : Thunnus thynnus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bft)
1/414: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lessonsfromthepastinvestigatinghistoricaldatafrombluefintunafisheries> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Lessons from the past : investigating historical data from bluefin tuna fisheries
In 1963, the leading fisheries targeting Atlantic bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus) in the Norwegian Sea and North Sea suddenly collapsed without any warning. Little is known about this collapse and several hypotheses have been put forward, such as changes in migratory routes, recruitment failure or eradication of a sub-population: all of these hypotheses could result from natural causes and/or from overfishing. To help explain this mysterious event, an original data set of the main bluefin tuna fisheries of the 20th century, including total catch and size composition of the catch, has been compiled and analysed. The results reveal a strong and unambiguous link between the Nordic purse seine and Spanish trap fisheries during the 1950s and 1960s. However, this link vanished during the 1970s. In addition, the North-west Atlantic and Mediterranean trap fisheries appeared also to be partially connected to the Nordic fisheries. During the 1950s and 1960s, the main migration routes of bluefin tuna were probably from the Mediterranean spawning grounds and from the West Atlantic coasts to the Norwegian coast and North Sea, which were probably a key feeding ground at that time. The analyses also lead to the conclusion that interactions between environmental, trophic and fishing processes have probably affected bluefin tuna migration patterns which would have finally caused the Nordic fisheries collapse. This retrospective analysis finally leads to an original 2013 albeit more speculative 2013 hypothesis concerning Atlantic bluefin tuna population structure, therein conjectured as an assemblage of at least three sub-populations.



496) Recherche du mot : geomorphologic element (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/geomorphologic_element)


497) Recherche du mot : Thunnus obesus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_obesus)
1/415: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howtomodelthesizedependentverticalbehaviourofbigeyethunnusobesustunaanditsenvironment> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : How to model the size-dependent vertical behaviour of bigeye (Thunnus obesus) tuna and its environment?
This paper attempts to model the vertical behavior of bigeye tuna in its environment. A sizedependant
model for bigeye tuna “normal” vertical behavior is developed. The model rests on
sound hypothesis about bigeye vertical behavior and takes into account the remarkable ability
of tuna to physiologically modify their heat exchange rate with ambient waters. The model
explicitly relates heat exchange rates to size. Simulations are presented which closely matches
with observed behaviors. Environmental factors and physio-ethological processes involved in
the bigeye tuna thermoregulation and vertical movements are discussed as well as the potential
consequences of the size-dependence of bigeye tuna thermoregulation.

2/416: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/opportunisticpredationintunaasizebasedapproach> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Opportunistic predation in tuna: a size-based approach
To test whether predation is an opportunistic size-based process within a tuna community, analyses were carried out on the size composition of stomach contents of bigeye tuna Thunnus obesus (Lowe, 1839) and yellowfin tuna T. albacares (Bonnaterre, 1788) caught in 1995 to 1997 during longline scientific surveys in the French Polynesian Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). Prey size distributions were compared with the size distribution of organisms collected by pelagic trawls carried out during the same programme. Relationships between prey size and predator size were studied using quantile regressions, and were related to tuna mouth-gape measurements. The results showed that mean and maximum sizes of prey increased with increasing predator size, and that maximum prey sizes (versus tuna size) were below those predicted by tuna mouth-gape size. Minimum prey size varied little with tuna size, and the size distributions of prey in tuna stomachs were very asymmetrical (lognormal type), confirming that during growth, tunas continue to feed on small prey. Comparison with previous studies on other piscivorous species from different ecosystems underlined that tunas feed on very small prey in relation to their own size. However, comparison of size distributions of prey in stomach contents and prey in pelagic trawls revealed that bigeye tuna select larger prey than yellowfin tuna when such prey are available.

3/417: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/tunanaturalmortalityasafunctionoftheiragethebigeyetunathunnusobesuscase> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Tuna natural mortality as a function of their age: the bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) case
This document reviews the age-specific levels and variability of natural mortality (Mi) in tuna
populations. Based on a review of the literature concerning this fundamental parameter, the U
shape curve of Mi expected for all living creatures as a function of their sizes and ages is
discussed. High levels of Mi are a biological rule for larvae and juveniles: minimal rates of Mi
tend to be observed before first spawning, followed by increasing Mi during spawning and for
older fishes due to biological senescence. The biological factors contributing to Mi variability
of tunas are presented and discussed. The paper later compares the profiles and levels of Mi
presently used for bigeye tuna by tuna Commissions. The biological validity of differences in
the Mi at juvenile ages between different species is discussed (for instance small yellowfin and
small bigeye). VPA are conducted on catch-at-age vectors typical of bigeye fisheries, using
various vectors of Mi. A subsequent yield-per-recruit analysis tends to confirm that the
potential negative effects of catching large amount of small bigeye tuna are highly dependent
on the Mi vector. It is concluded that scientists should better take this major biological
uncertainty for bigeye into account.

4/418: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/growthofbigeyetunathunnusobesusintheeasternatlanticoceanfromtaggingrecapturedataandotolithsreadings> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Growth of bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) in the Eastern Atlantic ocean from tagging-recapture data and otoliths readings
Growth of bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) in the eastern Atlantic Ocean is studied from (1) 625
bigeye tagged and recaptured with a fork length (FL) range 37-124 cm, (2) otoliths collected on
108 bigeye in Dakar from which 83 were use to validate the growth ring deposit by oxytetracyclin
antibiotic injection, and (3) otoliths from 147 bigeye collected in Abidjan. For
otoliths, the sizes of Dakar bigeye range from 37 cm to 112 cm FL (almost all juveniles), those
from Abidjan from 29 cm to 190 cm (juveniles and adults). Growth curves obtained from the
two different sets of data are similar so all data are combined to give a single growth curve for
bigeye with K=0.180 yr-1
, L∞ = 217.3 cm and t0 = -0.709 year. The interest of this approach is
the confirmation of the daily rate for ring deposit on otoliths and the use of both tagging and
otoliths' reading to estimate growth parameters.

5/419: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acomparisonofbigeyethunnusobesusstocksandfisheriesintheatlanticindianandpacificoceans> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : A comparison of bigeye (Thunnus obesus) stocks and fisheries in the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans
This paper presents a comparison of fisheries exploiting bigeye tuna. First, a comparison of the
bigeye catch trends by ocean is done. It shows in all areas a fast and quite synchronous
increase of bigeye catches since the early 1980s, followed by a stable or slowly declining catch
trend. Worldwide catches are due to a combination of low value bigeye taken by purse seiners
(mainly small sizes under FADs and of valuable large bigeye targeted by longliners for the
sashimi market. Sizes taken by the various gears in the three oceans are compared. Historical
changes of fishing zones are analysed. The relationship between catches of longliners and sea
surface temperatures is reviewed in each ocean. The main biological characteristics of bigeye
tuna such as growth, sex ratio-at-size and natural mortality, estimated in the various oceans
are compared. Bigeye stock status and the recent changes in the stock assessment diagnosis
done by the different tuna agencies, following the recent increases of catches, are examined
and discussed. Present limitations and uncertainties on the real stock status of bigeye
worldwide are discussed. It is concluded that despite more active research developed
worldwide during recent years on bigeye tunas, the assessment and prospects for management
of these heavily exploited stocks remain widely uncertain and an increasing source of concern.

6/420: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thedevelopmentofanoperationalmodelandsimulationprocedurefortestinguncertaintiesintheatlanticbigeyethunnusobesusstockassessment> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : The development of an operational model and simulation procedure for testing uncertainties in the Atlantic Bigeye (Thunnus obesus) stock assessment
Atlantic bigeye is a highly migratory species widely distributed through the whole Atlantic.
Recent assessments conducted by the ICCAT SCRS are highly uncertain due to the large
uncertainties in biological parameters, such as M, as well as in fishery statistics (e.g., IUU
fleets, juvenile catch) or abundance indexes. Similar uncertainties can be found in the Indian or
Pacific stocks. The development of an operational model has been recommended by different
regional fishery organizations as a good approach to investigate the sensitivity of the
assessment results to the uncertainties in the different inputs. This document presents an
operational model for the Atlantic bigeye as part of a simulation framework that will allow the
performance of management strategies based on current and improved biological knowledge
and management procedures to be evaluated.



498) Recherche du mot : Unloading (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/unloading)


499) Recherche du mot : Ecology (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ecology)
1/421: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.

2/422: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/geographicvariationintheforagingbehaviourdietandchickgrowthofrockhopperpenguins> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Geographic variation in the foraging behaviour, diet and chick growth of rockhopper penguins
The foraging ecology of rockhopper penguins was investigated at 3 sites marked by contrasting ecological conditions. The northern subspecies was studied at Amsterdam Island (AMS) in oceanic subtropical waters, and the southern subspecies at the Kerguelen Archipelago (KER) in a subantarctic coastal habitat and at the Crozet Archipelago (CRO) in subantarctic neritic waters. During the brooding period, females from every site mainly made daily foraging trips lasting 11 to 12 h. A principal component analysis (PCA) on 22 variables of daily foraging trips reduced these variables to 3 principal components, which were related to diving mode (PC1), foraging effort (PC2) and variation in diving behaviour (PC3). Overall, PC1 indicated that birds from AMS dived shallower, had shorter dive duration and bottom time, and were less active during less efficient dives than birds from KER and CRO. On the other hand, PC3 showed that birds from KER segregated from those of AMS and CRO by performing more uniform foraging trips with less variability in dive parameters. The PCA emphasised that most of the characteristics of daily trips and all the characteristics of foraging dives varied according to the study sites, thus stressing the importance of distinct environments in shaping the foraging behaviour of seabirds. Food loads, and accordingly chick growth, were lower at AMS, medium at CRO and higher at KER, while indices of foraging effort presented little variation. Birds at AMS fed mainly on the euphausiid Thysanoessa gregaria and on larger juvenile squids, while birds from CRO and KER preyed upon the subantarctic krill Euphausia vallentini. Diving strategies together with food loads and chick growth rates suggest that prey availability was low at AMS, intermediate at CRO and high at KER, which is in agreement with previous data on chlorophyll concentrations and zooplankton biomass. The study shows the complexity of foraging behaviour of penguins. It illustrates the importance of behavioural plasticity and suggests that it is a fundamental trait of the life history of seabirds living in highly variable environments.

3/423: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/twowaycouplingversusonewayforcingofplanktonandfishmodelstopredictecosystemchangesinthebenguela> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Two-way coupling versus one-way forcing of plankton and fish models to predict ecosystem changes in the Benguela
‘End-to-end' models have been adopted in an attempt to capture more of the processes that influence the ecology of marine ecosystems and to make system wide predictions of the effects of fishing and climate change. Here, we develop an end-to-end model by coupling existing models that describe the dynamics of low (ROMS–N2P2Z2D2) and high trophic levels (OSMOSE). ROMS–N2P2Z2D2 is a biogeochemical model representing phytoplankton and zooplankton seasonal dynamics forced by hydrodynamics in the Benguela upwelling ecosystem. OSMOSE is an individual-based model representing the dynamics of several species of fish, linked through opportunistic and size-based trophic interactions. The models are coupled through a two-way size-based predation process. Plankton provides prey for fish, and the effects of predation by fish on the plankton are described by a plankton mortality term that is variable in space and time. Using the end-to-end model, we compare the effects of two-way coupling versus one-way forcing of the fish model with the plankton biomass field. The fish-induced mortality on plankton is temporally variable, in part explained by seasonal changes in fish biomass. Inclusion of two-way feedback affects the seasonal dynamics of plankton groups and usually reduces the amplitude of variation in abundance (top-down effect). Forcing and coupling lead to different predicted food web structures owing to changes in the dominant food chain which is supported by plankton (bottom-up effect). Our comparisons of one-way forcing and two-way coupling show how feedbacks may affect abundance, food web structure and food web function and emphasise the need to critically examine the consequences of different model architectures when seeking to predict the effects of fishing and climate change.

4/424: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialdistributionofcubicepspauciradiatusperciformesnomeidaeinthetropicalindianoceananditsimportanceinthedietoflargepelagicfishes> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Spatial distribution of Cubiceps pauciradiatus (Perciformes:Nomeidae) in the tropical Indian Ocean and its importance in the diet of large pelagic fishes
The bigeye cigarfish (Cubiceps pauciradiatus) is a small pelagic nomeid of the tropical world ocean, often recovered in the stomach contents of top predators such as tunas, billfishes and marine mammals. In the Indian Ocean, a few studies have investigated the biology and the ecology of this species that is one of the most abundant fish of the intermediate trophic levels. In this paper, we investigated the spatial distribution of C. pauciradiatus in the Indian Ocean using pelagic trawl catches carried out between 20°N and 45°S, and the importance of bigeye cigarfish in the diet of 9 piscivorous fishes sampled by different fishing gears in the western part of the Indian Ocean. The highest densities were observed along the eastern coast of Africa and in the Arabian Sea (87 000 individuals per square nautical mile) during the South-West Monsoon and in the eastern part of the Seychelles archipelago (62 200 ind. square nmi) during the North-East Monsoon. Small sized bigeye cigarfish (20–80 mm SL) was a regular and abundant prey (20 to 200 ind. per stomach) for schooling predators exploited by purse seine fishery such as large yellowfin and bigeye tunas chasing prey near the sea surface. Large sized bigeye cigarfish (61–150 mm SL) occurred in small numbers (3 to 20 ind. per stomach) in the stomach contents of swordfish and of large yellowfin and bigeye tunas caught by longline sets at great depths. Large concentrations of bigeye cigarfish occurred in zones of high productivity, and that species constituted seasonally a strong link in the transfer of energy from low to high trophic levels in this part of the Indian Ocean.

5/425: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/topmarinepredatorstracklagrangiancoherentstructures> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Top marine predators track Lagrangian coherent structures
Meso- and submesoscales (fronts, eddies, filaments) in surface ocean flow have a crucial influence on marine ecosystems. Their dynamics partly control the foraging behavior and the displacement of marine top predators (tuna, birds, turtles, and cetaceans). In this work we focus on the role of submesoscale structures in the Mozambique Channel in the distribution of a marine predator, the Great Frigatebird. Using a newly developed dynamic concept, the finite-size Lyapunov exponent (FSLE), we identified Lagrangian coherent structures (LCSs) present in the surface flow in the channel over a 2-month observation period (August and September 2003). By comparing seabird satellite positions with LCS locations, we demonstrate that frigatebirds track precisely these structures in the Mozambique Channel, providing the first evidence that a top predator is able to track these FSLE ridges to locate food patches. After comparing bird positions during long and short trips and different parts of these trips, we propose several hypotheses to understand how frigatebirds can follow these LCSs. The birds might use visual and/or olfactory cues and/or atmospheric current changes over the structures to move along these biologic corridors. The birds being often associated with tuna schools around foraging areas, a thorough comprehension of their foraging behavior and movement during the breeding season is crucial not only to seabird ecology but also to an appropriate ecosystemic approach to fisheries in the channel.

6/426: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/areviewofanalyticalapproachestoinvestigateseabirdenvironmentinteractions> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : A review of analytical approaches to investigate seabird-environment interactions
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution, and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In this paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour, and their environment in order to assess current trends, weaknesses, and future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated; and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where in most cases no behavioral information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. A vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird-environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, meso-scale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modeling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multi-scale, and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

7/427: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparativeforagingecologyandecologicalnicheofasuperabundanttropicalseabirdthesootyternsternafuscatainthesouthwestindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Comparative foraging ecology and ecological niche of a superabundant tropical seabird: the sooty tern Sterna fuscata in the southwest Indian Ocean
Over 6-million pairs of sooty terns Sterna fuscata breed once a year in the southwest Indian Ocean, mostly on three islands of the Mozambique Channel (Europa, Juan de Nova and Glorieuses) and in the Seychelles region. Seasonal reproduction in either winter or summer is the dominant strategy in the area, but nonseasonal reproduction also occurred in some places like at Glorieuses Archipelago. The feeding ecology of the sooty tern was investigated during the breeding seasons to determine whether terns showed signiWcant diVerences in their trophic ecology between locations. Regurgitations were analyzed to describe the diet of individuals when breeding, and stable isotopes and mercury concentrations were used to temporally integrate over the medium-term of the trophic ecology of both adults and chicks. Overall, the diet was composed of fish, flying squid and fish larvae in different proportions. At Europa and Aride in the Seychelles, where winter reproduction occurs, large epipelagic prey like flying fish or squid dominated the diet. At Juan de Nova, sooty terns reproduce in summer and rely mostly on fish larvae. At Glorieuses (non-seasonal breeding), the diet was intermediate with fish larvae and flying squid being important prey items. The stable-carbon and nitrogen isotope values in blood confirm the differences observed in dietary analysis, and demonstrate different feeding strategies between colonies...δ13 C values of feathers showed spatial segregation between birds from the Mozambique Channel and the Seychelles region. Terns from the Seychelles had also higher δ15 N values. Feather δ13 C values also suggest a significant shift from summer to wintering habitat for birds from Juan de Nova. This study emphasizes the high phenotypic plasticity of the species, which may explain its numerical dominance in all tropical waters of the World's Ocean.

8/428: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/aminimalmodelofthevariabilityofmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : A minimal model of the variability of marine ecosystems
In marine ecology, population abundance time series often reveal patterns, such as decadal pseudo-cycles, on scales that make them difficult to mathematically characterize by means of conventional models based on functional responses. We propose here a simple non-deterministic model based on three strong ecologicalconstraints, without any use of functional responses or external factors: (i) mass balance constraints between flows and biomass, (ii) a satiation constraint relating inflows and biomass and (iii) an inertia principle restricting the variation of populations of a given species according to its lifespan. This model reproduces in a robust manner observed patterns of variability and can be used to question the relevance of other modelling approaches of ecosystem dynamics with regard to determinism, constraints and stochasticity. Referring to a non-deterministic model without any functional relationships and environmental or anthropogenic forcing can help in avoiding misleading advice based on the belief that we can explain the causes of observed patterns, which may simply result from basic structural constraints within which the ecosystem functions.

9/429: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/factorsdeterminingtheforagingrangeofwanderingalbatrossesduringtheirbreedingseasonanindividualbasedmodelibmapproach> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Factors determining the foraging range of wandering albatrosses during their breeding season : an individual based model (IBM) approach
Understanding the ecology of albatrosses at sea and in particular their foraging range and the location of their feeding zones is a critical issue for a better understanding of their population dynamics in a changing environment. Since the onset of satellite tracking techniques, it is possible to describe albatross trajectories in both space and time and infer their foraging ranges. Despite these important improvements in our observational capabilities, it is still difficult to evaluate the influence of local environmental cues such as wind and food availability on bird's trajectories. In this talk, we present an Individual Based Model (IBM) of flight pattern and foraging behaviour of free-ranging albatrosses (Diomedea exulans) breeding on the Crozet Islands, in the southwest Indian Ocean. We use winds measured by the satellite Quick-Sat and fields of food simulated by a trophodynamic model as forcing fields. In the IBM model, individuals can choose between different strategies using wind direction and food concentration. The development of the IBM follows a “pattern oriented modelling approach” (POM) in order to determine which strategy better fits the observed trajectories. The IBM is then used to infer potential new foraging areas when wind conditions and prey distribution change. The consequences of such environmental changes on albatross distribution are important issues regarding the conservation of this endangered oceanic top predator.

10/430: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/morphologicalaspectsoftheheartofthenorthernrockhopperpenguineudypteschrysocomemoseleyipossibleimplicationindivingbehaviorandecology> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Morphological aspects of the heart of the northern rockhopper penguin (Eudyptes chrysocome moseleyi): possible implication in diving behavior and ecology?


11/431: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/resourcepartitioningwithinatropicalseabirdcommunitynewinformationfromstableisotopes> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : Resource partitioning within a tropical seabird community: new information from stable isotopes
Characteristics of the tropical oceanic environment (low productivity, little seasonality) and poor diversity of tropical seabird foraging methods and prey relative to temperate and polar species suggest that tropical seabirds overall encompass a narrow range of isotopic niches, with large overlaps among species. To test this hypothesis, we examined the stable carbon (δ13C) and nitrogen (δ15N) isotopic composition of blood and feathers of 5 seabird species from Europa Island, Mozambique Channel. While differences were small, blood δ13C and δ15N values characterized 5 distinct and non-overlapping trophic niches during the breeding period. Seabirds used 2 distinct foraging areas (δ13C), one used by sooty tern Sterna fuscata and white-tailed tropicbird Phaethon lepturus and one used by red-footed booby Sula sula and great Fregata minor and lesser F. ariel frigatebirds. Seabird species overall encompassed less than 1 trophic level (δ15N), which is in agreement with a diet mainly based on flying fish and squid. Feather δ13C and δ15N values showed that the trophic structure of the community was different during the breeding and non-breeding (moulting) periods, suggesting a shift in the feeding ecology when adult birds were no longer central-place foragers. The stable isotope method underlined sex-related (red-footed booby) and age-related (great frigatebird immatures and adults) feeding strategies. It also suggested that breeding adults could feed themselves on different prey than those given to their chicks (sooty tern). Within the tropical pelagic ecosystem, seabirds overall shared the same trophic level as large predatory fishes (albacore, yellowfin and skipjack tunas), but they had lower δ15N values than the deeper-dwelling bigeye tuna and swordfish. We conclude that analyzing stable isotope values in blood and feathers appears to be a promising alternative method for investigating food and feeding ecology of tropical seabirds year round, and for determining sex- and age-related differences in their foraging strategies. A limitation of the method is the lack of information on marine isoscapes; future studies aimed at isotopically characterizing the tropical marine environment could help to associate consumer signatures to geographic origins.

12/432: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/conjecturesonfutureclimateeffectsonmarineecosystemsdominatedbysmallpelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Conjectures on future climate effects on marine ecosystems dominated by small pelagic fish
This book details the effects of climate variability on small pelagic fish and their ecosystems and fisheries. Particularly abundant in coastal upwelling regions off the west coasts of the Americas and Africa, off Japan, and in the NE Atlantic, the stocks of these fish fluctuate greatly over the timescale of decades, with large ecological and economic effects. This book describes the nature and cause of these fluctuations, and their consequences. It outlines results from paleo-oceanographic studies, showing that similar fluctuations have also occurred over the past two millennia. The potential effects of future climate change, both natural and anthropogenic, on stocks and fisheries, are considered. The book concludes by recommending the continued international study and assessment of small pelagic fish in order to best inform management and policy under a changing climate. It is written for research scientists, academics, and policy makers in fisheries, oceanography, and climate change. Considers climate change effects on small pelagic fish from an interdisciplinary perspective, making the topic accessible to readers from marine ecology, ecosystems, fisheries, climate change, and economics.

13/433: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/sustainableexploitationofsmallpelagicfishstockschallengedbyenvironmentalandecosystemchangesareview> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Sustainable exploitation of small pelagic fish stocks challenged by environmental and ecosystem changes: a review
Small pelagic fish contribute up to 50% of the total landing of marine species. They are most abundant in upwelling areas and contribute to food security. Exploited stocks of these species are prone to large interannual and interdecadal variation of abundance as well as to collapse. We discuss why small pelagic fish and fisheries are so "special" with regard to their biology, ecology, and behavior. Two adjectives can sum up the characteristics of pelagic species: variability and instability. Analyses of the relationships between small pelagic fish and their physical environment at different time-scales illustrate the complexity of the interplay between exploitation and environmental impacts. How small pelagic fish species are positioned and related within the trophic web suggests that these species play a central role in the functioning and dynamics of upwelling ecosystems. Finally, we discuss the sustainable exploitation of small pelagic fisheries through appropriate management, focusing on the resilience to exploitation, a comparison of different management options and regulatory mechanisms. We recommend that statistical, socio-economical, and political merits of a proposed two-level (short- and long-term) management strategy be undertaken.

14/434: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/openenvironmentaldatabasesforopenseafisheriesbiologists> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Open environmental databases for open-sea fisheries biologists
The present working document aims to list the main environmental databases (including in-situ
observations, remote-sensing data and ocean models outputs), that are currently available on the Net
and of interest in open-sea fisheries biology and ecology.

15/435: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climatevariabilityfishandfisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Climate variability, fish and fisheries
Fish population variability and fisheries activities are closely linked to weather and climate dynamics. While weather at sea directly affects fishing, environmental variability determines the distribution, migration, and abundance of fish. Fishery science grew up during the last century by integrating knowledge from oceanography, fish biology, marine ecology and fish population dynamics, largely focused on the great northern hemisphere fisheries. During this period, understanding and explaining interannual fish recruitment variability became a major focus for fisheries oceanographers. Yet, the close link between climate and fisheries is best illustrated by the effect of 'unexpected' events – i.e. non-seasonal, and sometimes catastrophic – on fish exploitation, such as those associated with the El Niño/ Southern Oscillation (ENSO). The observation that fish populations fluctuate at decadal time scales and show patterns of synchrony while being geographically separated drew attention to oceanographic processes driven by low frequency signals, as reflected by indices tracking large scale climate patterns such as the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) and the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO). This low frequency variability was first observed in catch fluctuations of small pelagic fish (anchovies, sardines), but similar effects soon emerged for larger fish such as salmons, various groundfish species, and some tuna species. Today, the availability of long time series of observations combined with major scientific advances in sampling and modelling the oceans ecosystems allows fisheries science to investigate processes generating variability in abundance, distribution and dynamics of fish species at daily, decadal and even centennial scales. These studies are central to the research programme of GLOBEC (Global Ocean Ecosystems Dynamics). In this review, we present examples of relationships between climate variability and fisheries at these different time-scales for species covering various marine ecosystems ranging from equatorial to sub-arctic regions. We describe some of the known mechanisms linking climate variability and exploited fish populations, as well as some leading hypotheses, and their implications for their management and for the modelling of their dynamics. We conclude with recommendations for collaborative work between climatologists,
oceanographers and fisheries scientists to resolve some of the outstanding problems in the development of sustainable fisheries.

16/436: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyoftropicaltoppredatorsintheindianocean> : SCORE = 2.4566321
Doc : Trophic ecology of tropical top predators in the Indian Ocean


17/437: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/nitrogenandcarbonisotopevaluesofindividualaminoacidsatooltostudyforagingecologyofpenguinsinthesouthernocean> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Nitrogen and carbon isotope values of individual amino acids: a tool to study foraging ecology of penguins in the Southern Ocean
We determined the δ15N and δ13C values of individual amino acids (AAs) isolated from chick blood of 4 penguin species that forage in different oceanic regions (from the subtropics of the Indian Ocean to Antarctica) to test if: (1) the δ15N values of phenylalanine (δ15N phe) revealed different foraging areas among the species; (2) the difference between glutamic acid and phenylalanine δ15N values (Δδ15Nglu-phe) accurately predicted trophic levels; and (3) the δ13C value of AAs could resolve species foraging locations, similar to bulk δ13C values. The δ13C values of all AAs decreased with latitude, were positively correlated with bulk δ13C data, and, therefore, tracked the isotopic baseline. However, we were not able to discern additional ecological information from these δ13C values. In contrast, the δ15N values of AAs distinguished the isotopic value of the nitrogen at the base of the food web from the trophic level of the consumer, providing new insight for the study of the trophic ecology of seabirds. The difference in the bulk δ15N values of northern and southern rockhopper penguins Eudyptes chrysocome ssp. was due to both a difference in their foraging location (different δ15N phe) and their trophic levels (different Δδ15Nglu-phe). The δ15N phe values of king Aptenodytes patagonicus and Adélie penguins Pygoscelis adeliae were higher than those of rockhoppers, which could reflect a foraging on mesopelagic prey for king penguins and, in the highly productive Antarctic shelf waters, for Adelie penguins. The Δδ15Nglu-phe accurately reflected the relative trophic level of penguins, but further work is required to determine the trophic enrichment factors for compound-specific isotope analysis.

18/438: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analyticalapproachestoinvestigatingseabirdenvironmentinteractionsareview> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Analytical approaches to investigating seabird–environment interactions: a review
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In the present paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour and their environment, in order to assess current trends, weaknesses and the future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where, in most cases, no behavioural information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. The vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas a few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird–environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, mesoscale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modelling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multiscale and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

19/439: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/schoolingbehaviourandenvironmentalforcinginrelationtoanchovetadistributionananalysisacrossmultiplespatialscales> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Schooling behaviour and environmental forcing in relation to anchoveta distribution: an analysis across multiple spatial scales
The Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) supports the highest worldwide fishery landings and varies in space and time over many scales. Here we present the first comprehensive sub-mesocale study of anchoveta distribution in relation to the environment. During November 2004, we conducted a behavioural ecology survey off central Peru and used a series of observational and sampling tools including SST and CO2 sensors, Niskin bottles, CTD probes, zooplankton sampling, stomach content analysis, echo-sounder, multibeam sonar, and bird observations. The sub-mesoscale survey areas were chosen from mesoscale acoustic surveys. A routine coast-wide (not, vert, similar2000 km) acoustic survey performed just after the sub-mesoscale surveys, provided information at an even larger population scale. The availability of nearly concurrent sub-mesoscale, mesoscale and coast-wide information on anchoveta distribution allowed for a unique multi-scale synthesis. At the sub-mesoscale (100s m to km) physical processes (internal waves and frontogenesis) concentrated plankton into patches and determined anchoveta spatial distribution. At the mesoscale (10s km) location relative to the zone of active upwelling (and age of the upwelled water) and the depth of the oxycline had strong impacts on the anchoveta. Finally, over 100s km the size of the productive area, as defined by the upwelled cold coastal waters, was the determining factor. We propose a conceptual view of the relative importance of social behaviour and environmental (biotic and abiotic) processes on the spatial distribution of anchoveta. Our ecological space has two y-axis; one based on self-organization (social behaviour), and the other based on the environmental processes. At scales from the individual (10s cm), to the nucleus (m), social behaviour (e.g. the need to school) drives spatial organization. At scales larger than the school, environmental forces are the main driver of fish distribution. The conceptual ecosystem models presented in this paper may provide the final links needed to develop accurate forecasts of the spatial distribution of anchoveta over multiple scales.

20/440: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysingmultipletimeseriesandextendingsignificancetestinginwaveletanalysis> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Analysing multiple time series and extending significance testing in wavelet analysis
In nature, non-stationarity is rather typical, but the number of statistical tools allowing for non-stationarity remains rather limited. Wavelet analysis is such a tool allowing for non-stationarity but the lack of an appropriate test for statistical inference as well as the difficulty to deal with multiple time series are 2 important shortcomings that limits its use in ecology. We present 2 approaches to deal with these shortcomings. First, we used 1/f beta models to test cycles in the wavelet spectrum against a null hypothesis that takes into account the highly autocorrelated nature of ecological time series. To illustrate the approach, we investigated the fluctuations in bluefin tuna trap catches with a set of different null models. The 1/f beta models approach proved to be the most consistent to discriminate significant cycles. Second, we used the maximum covariance analysis to compare, in a quantitative way, the time-frequency patterns (i.e. the wavelet spectra) of numerous time series. This approach built cluster trees that grouped the wavelet spectra according to their time-frequency patterns. Controlled signals and time series of sea surface temperature (SST) in the Mediterranean Sea were used to test the ability and power of this approach. The results were satisfactory and clusters on the SST time series displayed a hierarchical division of the Mediterranean into a few homogeneous areas that are known to display different hydrological and oceanic patterns. We discuss the limits and potentialities of these methods to study the associations between ecological and environmental fluctuations.

21/441: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/chickrearingcrozetshagsphalacrocoraxmelanogenisdisplaysexspecificforagingbehaviour> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Chick-Rearing Crozet Shags (Phalacrocorax Melanogenis) Display Sex-Specific Foraging Behaviour
We compared, for the first time the foraging ecology of both sexes of the blue-eyed Crozet shag (Phalacrocoraxmelanogenis), using ventrally attached time depth recorders to investigate differences in time-budget and diving behaviour between the sexes during the chick-rearing. Males were the only ones to dive over 55 m. Females dived mostly between 15 and 35 m, a zone poorly used by males. Females foraged mostly in the morning and males in the afternoon. Females also spent one hour longer diving per day compared to males. There were differences in diving strategies and diet, indicating that both sexes targeted essentially the same prey, but of different sizes, males specializing in bigger fish. Although the relationship between sexual dimorphism and diving depth was positive (larger animals diving deeper), evidence suggests that body size (in terms of oxygen storage capacity) is not sufficient to explain so many differences in foraging ecology. Instead, we propose prey size (possibly driven by a limitation of prey handling ability in relation to beak size) could be an essential factor in shaping the male/female behavioural segregation in the Crozet shag; future studies should concentrate on this particular aspect.

22/442: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/aparsimoniousapproachtomodelinganimalmovementdata> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : A parsimonious approach to modeling animal movement data
Animal tracking is a growing field in ecology and previous work has shown that simple speed filtering of tracking data is not sufficient and that improvement of tracking location estimates are possible. To date, this has required methods that are complicated and often time-consuming (state-space models), resulting in limited application of this technique and the potential for analysis errors due to poor understanding of the fundamental framework behind the approach. We describe and test an alternative and intuitive approach consisting of bootstrapping random walks biased by forward particles. The model uses recorded data accuracy estimates, and can assimilate other sources of data such as sea-surface temperature, bathymetry and/or physical boundaries. We tested our model using ARGOS and geolocation tracks of elephant seals that also carried GPS tags in addition to PTTs, enabling true validation. Among pinnipeds, elephant seals are extreme divers that spend little time at the surface, which considerably impact the quality of both ARGOS and light-based geolocation tracks. Despite such low overall quality tracks, our model provided location estimates within 4.0, 5.5 and 12.0 km of true location 50% of the time, and within 9, 10.5 and 20.0 km 90% of the time, for above, equal or below average elephant seal ARGOS track qualities, respectively. With geolocation data, 50% of errors were less than 104.8 km (<0.94°), and 90% were less than 199.8 km (<1.80°). Larger errors were due to lack of sea-surface temperature gradients. In addition we show that our model is flexible enough to solve the obstacle avoidance problem by assimilating high resolution coastline data. This reduced the number of invalid on-land location by almost an order of magnitude. The method is intuitive, flexible and efficient, promising extensive utilization in future research.



500) Recherche du mot : AVHRR (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/avhrr)
1/443: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trendsinprimaryproductionseasurfacetemperatureandwindinupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Trends in primary production, sea surface temperature and wind in upwelling systems (1998-2007)
We take advantage of the longest high quality single-sensor global data set of ocean color available today to explore recent trends in the primary productivity of the main eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUEs): California, Canary, Humboldt and Benguela. The chlorophyll-a concentration is used as a proxy for primary production. SST data from AVHRR and wind speed data from QuikSCAT are used in conjunction with this data set to analyse forcing mechanisms explaining the chlorophyll biomass.
Whereas the worldwide primary-production biomass shows on average decreasing trends, as already observed in the stratified part of the worldwide ocean, the productivity of most EBUEs increases during the study period. These contrasting trends are both significant, at least for the mid latitude range of 50°S-50°N, where the data coverage is sufficient for accurate estimation.
Probably due to the large scale atmospheric forcing, trends in sea surface temperature (SST) show non-significant relationships with the trends in biomass within upwelling systems, suggesting that SST anomalies cannot be used as an indicator of change in upwelling intensity in a continuous warming context. On the other hand, upwelling favourable equatorward winds show a significant correlation with the observed trends in biomass, suggesting that the trends in the trade winds are probably linked to an increase in the intensity of the Hadley cell circulation observed during the last several decades.

2/444: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/alongshoreandtemporalvariabilityinchlorophyllaconcentrationinchileannearshorewaters> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Alongshore and temporal variability in chlorophyll a concentration in Chilean nearshore waters
Phytoplankton and particulate organic matter constitute the primary food source for adult filter-feeders, as well as for larval stages of many benthic and pelagic organisms. The structure and dynamics of nearshore benthic communities may be associated with variation in nearshore primary production. However, we know little about the scales of variability in phytoplankton in nearshore waters along open coasts, or about their causes. To characterize spatial and temporal patterns of chl a concentration, we conducted 2.5 yr of daily, shore-based monitoring at 3 sites separated by 10s of km within an upwelling region in central Chile. We found that: (1) peaks in chl a concentration were typically short-lived, persisting no longer than 4 d, (2) blooms occurred in spring to early summer months at all sites, but also during autumn months at 1 site (Las Cruces), and (3) the intensity and frequency of blooms were consistently different among sites; highest concentrations were at Las Cruces, lower at El Quisco, and the lowest at Quintay. Analyses of wind data and surface temperature, and inspection of Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) satellite images, suggested that among-site differences were due, at least in part, to alongshore variation in upwelling intensity and the formation of warm-water pockets or upwelling shadows in sections of the coast, such as Las Cruces. In contrast to the spatial pattern described offshore and over larger spatial scales, chl a concentrations were significantly lower at the coldest site, Quintay, located at the core of an upwelling center (Pta. Curaumilla), than at the warmer site of Las Cruces, which lies downstream from upwelling. Day-to-day variation in chl a levels during spring at Las Cruces seems related to the alongshore intrusion of waters upwelled upstream. Overall, the pattern observed at our 3 sites, together with previous studies at other upwelling systems, suggests that sections of the coast around 15 to 20 km downstream (equatorward) from upwelling centers could exhibit consistently higher phytoplankton concentrations than sites located in front of upwelling centers, generating a source-sink type of geographic pattern of nearshore nutrients and phytoplankton along the coast.



501) Recherche du mot : Sphyraena spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyraena_spp)


502) Recherche du mot : Pomfrets, ocean breams nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bramidae)


503) Recherche du mot : plateform (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/platform)


504) Recherche du mot : white suckerfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/remorina_albescens)


505) Recherche du mot : @es (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alepisaurus_ferox)


506) Recherche du mot : Carcharodon carcharias (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharodon_carcharias)


507) Recherche du mot : Makaira indica (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_indica)


508) Recherche du mot : Moderate-resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/modis)


509) Recherche du mot : Thorax (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thorax)


510) Recherche du mot : Lurión japonés (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/moroteuthis_lonnbergii)


511) Recherche du mot : taille moyenne (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/mean_length)
1/445: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lescrevettescotieresdemadagascarbiologieexploitationgestion> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Les crevettes côtières de Madagascar: Biologie, exploitation, gestion
Depuis les années 1960, les crevettes côtières de Madagascar font l'objet d'une intense exploitation. Elles représentent l'une des principales ressources de devises du pays et constituent à ce titre un enjeu convoité par les investisseurs, mais aussi par les pêcheurs traditionnels. Du fait de l'augmentation de la pression de pêche, la pêcherie malgache se trouve confrontée, depuis le milieu des années 1990, à des difficultés économiques croissantes, à la stagnation des débarquements, à la baisse des rendements et de la taille moyenne des captures.

Avec pour objectif d'actualiser les connaissances scientifiques sur la ressource et d'en améliorer la gestion et l'exploitation, mais également pour définir une politique d'aménagement des aires de production, le Programme national de recherche crevettière (PNRC) a été lancé en 1997 avec le soutien financier de l'Agence française de développement et l'expertise scientifique de l'Institut de recherche pour le développement (IRD).



512) Recherche du mot : Auxis thazard (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_thazard)


513) Recherche du mot : Shortfin mako (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/isurus_oxyrinchus)


514) Recherche du mot : island trevally (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carangoides_orthogrammus)


515) Recherche du mot : Sharpfin barracuda (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyraena_acutipinnis)


516) Recherche du mot : Auxides et bonitou (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_sp)


517) Recherche du mot : Lactoria diaphana (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lactoria_diaphana)


518) Recherche du mot : mass_concentration_of_chlorophyll_a_in_sea_water (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/chlorophyllA)


519) Recherche du mot : Carite atlántico (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_maculatus)


520) Recherche du mot : Thazard barré (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_cavalla)


521) Recherche du mot : Tiburón azul (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/prionace_glauca)


522) Recherche du mot : houndfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tylosurus_crocodilus)


523) Recherche du mot : palangrier (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/longliner)


524) Recherche du mot : Smooth hammerhead (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyrna_zygaena)


525) Recherche du mot : Thunnus tonggol (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_tonggol)


526) Recherche du mot : community (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/community)
1/446: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofapecosmaspatializedmassbalancedapexpredatorsecosystemmodeltostudyphysiologicallystructuredtunapopulationdynamicsintheirecosystem> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : An overview of APECOSM, a Spatialized Mass Balanced “Apex Predators ECOSystem Model” to Study Physiologically Structured Tuna Population Dynamics in their Ecosystem
This paper gives an overview of the ecosystem model APECOSM (Apex Predators ECOSystem Model) which is developed in the framework of the GLOBEC-CLIOTOP Programme. APECOSM represents the flow of energy through the ecosystem with a size-resolved structure in both space and time. The uptake and use of energy for growth, maintenance and reproduction by the organisms are modelled according to the DEB (dynamic energy budget) theory (Kooijmann, 2000) and the size-structured nature of predation is explicit. The pelagic community is divided into epipelagic and mesopelagic groups, the latter being subdivided into vertically migrant and non-migrant species. The model is mass-conservative. Energy is provided as the basis of the model through primary production and transferred through 3D spatially explicit size-spectra. Focus species (tunas at present, but any predator species can be considered) are “extracted” from the global size-spectra without losing mass balance and represented with more physiological and behavioural details. The forcing effects of temperature, currents, light, oxygen, primary production and fishing are explicitly taken into account.

2/447: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingapproachtoregimeshiftsofprimaryproductioninshallowcoastalecosystems> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Modeling approach to regime shifts of primary production in shallow coastal ecosystems
Pristine coastal shallow systems are usually dominated by extensive meadows of seagrass species, which are assumed to take advantage of nutrient supply from sediment. An increasing nutrient input is thought to favour phytoplankton, epiphytic microalgae, aswell as opportunistic ephemeral macroalgae that coexist with seagrasses. The primary cause of shifts and succession in the macrophyte community is the increase of nutrient load to water; however, temperature plays also an important role. A competition model between rooted seagrass (Zostera marina), macroalgae (Ulva sp.), and phytoplankton has been developed to analyse the succession of primary producer communities in these systems. Successions of dominance states, with different resilience ;characteristics, are found when modifying the input of nutrients and the seasonal temperature and light intensity forcing.
© 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

3/448: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/primaryproductionandspatialdistributionofsubtidalmicrophytobenthosinatemperatecoastalsystemthebayofbrestfrance> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Primary production and spatial distribution of subtidal microphytobenthos in a temperate coastal system, the Bay of Brest, France
The main objective of this study was to define the primary production and the spatial and temporal distribution of the subtidal microphytobenthic community in a temperate coastal ecosystem, the Bay of Brest. The productivity of the microphytobenthos (MPB) was estimated in winter, spring and late summer, by a series of in situ benthic chamber incubations. Oxygen (O2) and dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) fluxes were measured at the sediment–water interface in light and dark conditions to determine the net and gross primary production present. Functional regression of the O2 and DIC data demonstrated that the community photosynthetic quotient (CPQ) for the benthic community was 1. A maximal gross production (Pmax) of between 0.4 and 0.8 mmol O2 mg chl a−1 h−1 was estimated for the MPB in the Bay. EK values were low, ranging from 57.8 to 83.4 μmol photons m−2 s−1 and can be considered an adaptation of the MPB to the reduced light levels reaching the sediment–water interface. Two sampling campaigns were undertaken in winter and late summer to measure the biomass of the benthic microalgal community in the Bay. Productivity estimates were combined with this biomass to give the MPB production in all areas of the Bay. Principal components analysis revealed that stations sampled were grouped primarily as a function of their depth, highlighting the importance above all of light availability, and their sediment type, with highest biomass concentrations found in bare muddy sediments. Hierarchical classification allowed the determination of four groups of stations in the Bay defined by their biotic and abiotic differences. The importance of the gastropod Crepidula fornicata in conditioning the benthic structural and biochemical environment was also highlighted. Geographical information systems based mapping allowed the representation of the spatial and temporal distribution of biomass and primary production and consequently a determination of the overall MPB production. Average seasonal production estimates for the Bay of Brest ranged from 57 in winter to 111 mg C m−2 day−1 in late summer and represented from 12–20% of total primary production.

4/449: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/benthiccommunityandfoodwebstructureonthecontinentalshelfofthebayofbiscaynortheasternatlanticrevealedbystableisotopesanalysis> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Benthic community and food web structure on the continental shelf of the Bay of Biscay (North Eastern Atlantic) revealed by stable isotopes analysis


5/450: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/simulatingandtestingthesensitivityofecosystembasedindicatorstofishinginthesouthernbenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Simulating and testing the sensitivity of ecosystem-based indicators to fishing in the southern Benguela ecosystem
The sensitivity of size-based, species-based, and trophodynamic indicators is examined for the fish community of the southern Benguela ecosystem (South Africa) through simulations of different fishing scenarios using the multispecies model OSMOSE. The simulations suggest that it may be erroneous to consider one absolute reference direction of change for any indicator because the direction of change is specific to both the multispecies assemblage and the fishing scenario considered. The analysis of species versus community indicators is helpful for understanding which processes drive the emergent properties of the ecosystem. Informative about the structure and state of the ecosystem, both types of indicators weighted by biomass or by abundance should be used to evaluate ecosystem changes. Indicators characterizing size distribution (e.g., slope of size spectrum) appear to be more helpful in distinguishing the cause of ecosystem changes than mean community indicators because their response is specific to the fishing scenario simulate 
(i.e., global or hake-targeting fishing). Some indicators do not seem to be sensitive to fishing pressure (slope of the diversity size spectrum) or do not vary consistently with other studies (W statistic).

6/451: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usingsizebasedindicatorstoevaluatetheecosystemeffectsoffishing> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Using size-based indicators to evaluate the ecosystem effects of fishing
The usefulness and relevance of size-based indicators (SBIs) to an ecosystem approach to fisheries (EAF) are assessed through a review of empirical and modelling studies. SBIs are tabulated along with their definitions, data requirements, potential biases, availability of time-series, and expected directions of change in response to fishing pressure. They include mean length in a population, mean length in a community, mean maximum length in a community, and the slope and intercept of size spectra. Most SBIs can be derived from fairly standard survey data on length frequencies, without the need for elaborate models. Possible fishing- and environment-induced effects are analysed to distinguish between the two causes, and hypothetical cases of reference directions of change are tabulated. We conclude that no single SBI can serve as an effective overall indicator of heavy fishing pressure. Rather, suites of SBI should be selected, and reference directions may be more useful than reference points. Further modelling and worldwide comparative studies are needed to provide better understanding of SBIs and the factors affecting them. The slow response to fishing pressure reflects the complexity of community interactions and ecosystem responses, and prohibits their application in the context of short-term (annual) tactical fisheries management. However, movement towards longer-term (5–10 years) strategic management in EAF should facilitate their use.

7/452: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/cultivationalleeeffectandresilienceoflargedemersalfishpopulations> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Cultivation, Allee effect and resilience of large demersal fish populations
In the marine environment, small forage species can predate on, or compete with, the pre-recruits of their larger predators. The “cultivation effect” hypothesis proposes that this mechanism can slow down the recovery of depleted populations of large demersal fishes by creating Allee effects that lower their recruitment success. Using an individual based fish community model applied to the southern Benguela ecosystem, we simulate situations of potential cultivation effect on a population of shallow water hake Merluccius capensis. We search for evidence of Allee effects due to cultivation and investigate how complex trophic interactions could influence their underlying mechanisms and impact. The resilience of the shallow water hake population was measured by following the variations of the ratio R/S (the number of recruits over the number of spawners) when population size decreases and the predators and competitors of shallow water hake pre-recruits were identified. Simulations suggest that cultivation effects are likely to emerge within the fish community of the southern Benguela ecosystem. Our twelve species model emphasizes that cultivation effects result from complex influences of predation and competition on the different pre-recruit stages, whose trophic role depends on both body size and geographical distribution. For realistic linkages between forage species and shallow water hake pre-recruits, cultivation effects occurring in the limits of the southern Benguela fish community are predicted to delay population recovery by several decades. These significant delays are not characterized by a decrease of R/S at low stock size, which is the sign usually tracked when looking for Allee effects. Our study suggests that cultivation effects could play a major role in the dynamics of overexploited large demersal fish populations and pleads for the development of improved detection techniques for these processes.

8/453: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/opportunisticpredationintunaasizebasedapproach> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Opportunistic predation in tuna: a size-based approach
To test whether predation is an opportunistic size-based process within a tuna community, analyses were carried out on the size composition of stomach contents of bigeye tuna Thunnus obesus (Lowe, 1839) and yellowfin tuna T. albacares (Bonnaterre, 1788) caught in 1995 to 1997 during longline scientific surveys in the French Polynesian Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). Prey size distributions were compared with the size distribution of organisms collected by pelagic trawls carried out during the same programme. Relationships between prey size and predator size were studied using quantile regressions, and were related to tuna mouth-gape measurements. The results showed that mean and maximum sizes of prey increased with increasing predator size, and that maximum prey sizes (versus tuna size) were below those predicted by tuna mouth-gape size. Minimum prey size varied little with tuna size, and the size distributions of prey in tuna stomachs were very asymmetrical (lognormal type), confirming that during growth, tunas continue to feed on small prey. Comparison with previous studies on other piscivorous species from different ecosystems underlined that tunas feed on very small prey in relation to their own size. However, comparison of size distributions of prey in stomach contents and prey in pelagic trawls revealed that bigeye tuna select larger prey than yellowfin tuna when such prey are available.

9/454: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/driftingfishaggregationdevicescouldactasanecologicaltrapfortropicaltunaspecies> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Drifting fish aggregation devices could act as an ecological trap for tropical tuna species
Purse seine fishing on fish aggregating devices (FADs) has expanded considerably during
the last 15 yr in tropical tuna purse seine fisheries, and FADs currently account for about 70% of
their reported tuna catches. The scientific community has expressed concern over the consequences
of this fishing practice in terms of yield per recruit and suspected detrimental effects on FADassociated
tunas. To explore possible detrimental effects, we compared stomach fullness, fish plumpness,
growth rate, and migration behaviour between free school and drifting FAD-associated tunas
for skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis and yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares caught in the Atlantic
and Indian Oceans. Significant differences in fish plumpness and individual growth rates were found,
suggesting that individuals associated with drifting FADs were less healthy than those in free schools.
Since stomach fullness indicated that tunas associated with FADs eat less than those in free schools,
the difference in growth rate and condition could be the consequence of altered feeding patterns. For
each species, significant changes in migratory direction and displacement rates were observed in the
presence of drifting FADs. These findings support the hypothesis that FADs act as a super-stimulus,
misleading tunas to make inappropriate habitat selection. However, further studies are required to
investigate the long-term effect of FADs on the entire life cycle of tunas.

10/455: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/resourcepartitioningwithinatropicalseabirdcommunitynewinformationfromstableisotopes> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : Resource partitioning within a tropical seabird community: new information from stable isotopes
Characteristics of the tropical oceanic environment (low productivity, little seasonality) and poor diversity of tropical seabird foraging methods and prey relative to temperate and polar species suggest that tropical seabirds overall encompass a narrow range of isotopic niches, with large overlaps among species. To test this hypothesis, we examined the stable carbon (δ13C) and nitrogen (δ15N) isotopic composition of blood and feathers of 5 seabird species from Europa Island, Mozambique Channel. While differences were small, blood δ13C and δ15N values characterized 5 distinct and non-overlapping trophic niches during the breeding period. Seabirds used 2 distinct foraging areas (δ13C), one used by sooty tern Sterna fuscata and white-tailed tropicbird Phaethon lepturus and one used by red-footed booby Sula sula and great Fregata minor and lesser F. ariel frigatebirds. Seabird species overall encompassed less than 1 trophic level (δ15N), which is in agreement with a diet mainly based on flying fish and squid. Feather δ13C and δ15N values showed that the trophic structure of the community was different during the breeding and non-breeding (moulting) periods, suggesting a shift in the feeding ecology when adult birds were no longer central-place foragers. The stable isotope method underlined sex-related (red-footed booby) and age-related (great frigatebird immatures and adults) feeding strategies. It also suggested that breeding adults could feed themselves on different prey than those given to their chicks (sooty tern). Within the tropical pelagic ecosystem, seabirds overall shared the same trophic level as large predatory fishes (albacore, yellowfin and skipjack tunas), but they had lower δ15N values than the deeper-dwelling bigeye tuna and swordfish. We conclude that analyzing stable isotope values in blood and feathers appears to be a promising alternative method for investigating food and feeding ecology of tropical seabirds year round, and for determining sex- and age-related differences in their foraging strategies. A limitation of the method is the lack of information on marine isoscapes; future studies aimed at isotopically characterizing the tropical marine environment could help to associate consumer signatures to geographic origins.

11/456: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/newinformationfromfishdietsontheimportanceofglassyflyingsquidhyaloteuthispelagicateuthoideaommastrephidaeintheepipelagiccephalopodcommunityofthetropicalatlanticocean> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : New information from fish diets on the importance of glassy flying squid (Hyaloteuthis pelagica) (Teuthoidea: Ommastrephidae) in the epipelagic cephalopod community of the tropical Atlantic Ocean
Squids of the family Ommastrephidae are a vital part of marine food webs and support major fisheries around the world. They are widely distributed in the open ocean, where they are among the most abundant in number and biomass of nektonic epipelagic organisms. In turn, seven of the 11 genera of this family (Dosidicus, Illex, Martialia, Nototodarus, Ommastrephes, Sthenoteuthis, and Todarodes) are heavily preyed upon by top marine predators, i.e., birds, mammals, and fish, and currently support fisheries in both neritic and oceanic waters (Roper and Sweeney, 1984; Rodhouse, 1997). Their commercial importance has made the large ommastrephids the target of many scientific ...

12/457: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/changesinfoodwebstructureunderscenariosofoverfishinginthesouthernbenguelacomparisonoftheecosimandosmosemodellingapproaches> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : Changes in food web structure under scenarios of overfishing in the southern Benguela: comparison of the Ecosim and OSMOSE modelling approaches
Ecosystem models provide a platform allowing exploration into the possible responses of marine food webs to fishing pressure and various potential management decisions. In this study we investigate the particular effects of overfishing on the structure and function of the southern Benguela food web, using two models with different underlying assumptions: the spatialized, size-based individual-based model, OSMOSE, and the trophic mass-balance model, Ecopath with Ecosim (EwE). Starting from the same reference state of the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem during the 1990s, we compare the response of the food web to scenarios of overfishing using these two modelling approaches. A scenario of increased fishing mortality is applied to two distinct functional groups: i) two species of Cape hake, representing important target predatory fish, and ii) the forage species anchovy, sardine and redeye. In these simulations, fishing mortality on the selected functional groups is doubled for 10 years, followed by 10 years at the initial fishing mortality. We compare the food web states before the increase of fishing mortality, after 10 years of overfishing and after a further 10 years during which fishing was returned to initial levels. In order to compare the simulated food web structures with the reference state, and between the two modelling approaches, we use a set of trophic indicators: the mean trophic level of the community and in catches, the trophic pyramid (biomass per discrete trophic level), and the predatory/forage fish biomass ratio. OSMOSE and EwE present globally similar results for the trophic functioning of the ecosystem under fishing pressure: the biomass of targeted species decreases whereas that of their potential competitors increases. The reaction of distant species is more diverse, depending on the feeding links between the compartments. The mean trophic level of the community does not vary enough to be used for assessing ecosystem impacts of fishing, and the mean trophic level in the catch displays a surprising increase due to the short period of overfishing. The trophic pyramids behave in an unexpected way compared to trophic control theory, because at least two food chains with different dynamics are intertwined within the food web. We emphasize the importance of biomass information at the species level for interpreting dynamics in aggregated indicators, and we highlight the importance of competitive groups when looking at ecosystem functioning under fishing disturbance. Finally, we discuss the results within the scope of differences between models, in terms of the way they are formulated, spatial dimensions, predation formulations and the representation of fish life cycles.

13/458: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/phasetransitionsinmarinefishrecruitmentprocesses> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Phase transitions in marine fish recruitment processes
There has been a recent resurgence of interest in fisheries recruitment as a dynamic and complex process that is integrated over several life stages, with a variety of factors acting across scales to initiate, modulate, and constrain population abundance and variability. In this paper, we review the theory of recruitment phase transitions using a marine fisheries perspective. We propose that transitions in recruitment are dependent upon the balance of activating and constraining processes of recruitment control, and we highlight fundamental differences in recruitment transitions precipitated by climate events, those related to community alterations, and those manifested by fishery practices (though each is not necessarily mutually exclusive). We maintain that the emergent properties of fisheries populations post-phase transition are contingent upon their histories, their differing initial states, the degree of food web complexity, interaction strengths among interspecifics, and contrasting external forcing, any or all of which may be dissimilar between one regime and another.We suggest that it may be challenging to forecast recruitment phase transitions, though we encourage efforts to determine whether there are unifying relationships that govern recruitment dynamics.
© 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

14/459: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparisonofcandnstableisotoperatiosbetweensurfaceparticulateorganicmatterandmicrophytoplanktoninthegulfoflionsnwmediterranean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Comparison of C and N stable isotope ratios between surface particulate organic matter and microphytoplankton in the Gulf of Lions (NW Mediterranean)
Carbon and nitrogen stable isotope ratios of particulate organic matter (POM) in surface water and 63-200 μm-sized microphytoplankton collected at the fluorescence maximum were studied in four sites in the Gulf of Lions (NW Mediterranean), a marine area influenced by the Rhone River inputs, in May and November 2004. Some environmental (temperature, salinity) and biological (POM, Chlorophyll a and phaeopigments contents, phytoplankton biomass and composition) parameters were also analysed. Significantly different C and N isotopic signatures between surface water POM and microphytoplankton were recorded in all sites and seasons. Surface water POM presented systematically lower δ13C (∼4.2%o) and higher δ15N (∼2.8‰) values than those of microphytoplankton, due to a higher content of continental and detrital material. Seasonal variations were observed for all environmental and biological parameters, except salinity. Water temperature was lower in May than in November, the fluorescence maximum was located deeper and the Chlorophyll a content and the phytoplankton biomass were higher, along with low PON/ChI a ratio, corresponding to spring bloom conditions. At all sites and seasons, diatoms dominated the phytoplankton community in abundance, whereas dinoflagellate importance increased in autumn particularly in coastal sites. C and N isotopic signatures of phytoplankton did not vary with season. However, the δ15N of surface water POM was significantly higher in November than in May in all sites likely in relation to an increase in 15N/14N ratio of the Rhone River POM which influenced surface water in the Gulf of Lions. As it is important to determine true baseline values of primary producers for analysing marine food webs, this study demonstrated that C and N isotopic values of surface water POM cannot be used as phytoplankton proxy in coastal areas submitted to high river inputs.

15/460: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multistabilityinanopenrecruitmentfoodwebmodel> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Multistability in an open recruitment food web model
A general model for three species food web found in marine systems is analyzed. Following single-species approaches to model the dynamics of marine organisms, we relaxed the assumption of closed population structure and examine the behavior of webs in which some or all the component populations have completely open dynamics, that is, there is no connection between the arrival of new individuals and local reproductive output. Recent reviews have shown that coexistence among species with self-recruitment with those with completely open-recruitment is the norm in marine habitats. As part of a study of tri-trophic food web models with combinations of self-versus open-recruitment, we describe here the stability properties of a food web with omnivory where the basal and the intermediate predator species have open populations and the top predator reproduces locally. This system can have a maximum of four critical points and at least one corresponding to the omnivore-free equilibrium point. In this case our system reduces to a two level food web without omnivory. This equilibrium point has stability properties that depend on the capacity of invasion of the omnivore species. If the omnivore succeeds in invading the community then a three level food web can be established but with more complex stability properties. When the equilibrium point without the top predator is unstable, then there may exist three more critical points, at least one of which is asymptotically stable. The exact number of critical points that may exist depends on the food web parameter space. We speculate that the restrictive conditions for three-species stability could explain the scarcity of this particular combination of dispersal abilities in natural communities.

16/461: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/exploringtheeffectofmarineprotectedareasonthedynamicsoffishcommunitiesinthesouthernbenguelaanindividualbasedmodellingapproach> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Exploring the effect of Marine Protected Areas on the dynamics of fish communities in the southern Benguela: an individual-based modelling approach
Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) have been suggested as a tool that can achieve some of the goals of an Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries (EAF), e.g. prevention of overexploitation, biodiversity conservation, recovery of overexploited population, but the consequences of their establishment on the dynamics of protected components are often unclear. Spatial and multispecies models can be used to investigate the effects of their introduction. An individual-based, spatially explicit, size-structured, multispecies model (known as OSMOSE) is used to investigate the likely consequences of the introduction of three MPAs off the coast of South Africa, individually or in combination. The simultaneous introduction of the MPAs affected varying proportions of the distribution of the modelled species (5–17%) and 12% of the distribution of the whole community. In general, the introduction of the MPAs in the different scenarios resulted in a relative increase in the biomass of large predatory fish and a decrease in the biomass of small pelagic fish. The simulation demonstrates that consideration of trophic interactions is necessary when introducing MPAs, with indirect effects that may be detrimental to some (mainly smaller prey) species

17/462: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thegambiariverestuaryareferencepointforestuarinefishassemblagesstudiesinwestafrica> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : The Gambia River Estuary: a reference point for estuarine fish assemblages studies in West Africa
The Gambia River is one of the last aquatic ecosystems in West Africa that has not yet been affected by strong environmental changes and human disturbances. In contrast to the neighbouring Casamance and Sine Saloum estuaries, the Gambia estuary is free of major climatic perturbation and remains a “normal” estuary, with a salinity range from freshwater to 39. The present paper aims to study the spatial and seasonal variability of fish assemblages in this estuary in terms of bio-ecological categories and of their relation with some environmental variables. Four surveys were conducted, from June 2001 to April 2002, in order to cover the major hydroclimatic events, at 44 sampling sites along the lower, intermediate and upper zones of the Gambia estuary (up to 220 km). Fish assemblages were sampled using a purse seine net, fish were identified to species level and environmental variables such as water depth, transparency, salinity, temperature and percentage oxygen saturation were measured. The main spatial structure of the fish assemblages and its seasonal changes were first studied using the STATIS-CoA multitable method. The combination of fish assemblages and environmental variables was then analysed using the STATICO method, designed for the simultaneous analysis of paired ecological tables. A total of 67 species were observed, belonging to all bio-ecological categories characterizing West African estuaries. The marine component of the community was largely dominant throughout the estuary, while the freshwater component was permanently observed only in the upstream zone. The main spatial structure was a longitudinal gradient contrasting marine and freshwater affinity assemblages, with strong seasonal variations. The most complete gradient was observed in December, at the beginning of the dry and cool season, while in June, at the end of the dry and warm season, there was the least structured gradient. The role of salinity, always correlated with temperature, was emphasized, while turbidity appeared to be another important factor. Oxygen and depth did not play a major role at the estuary scale. The relative importance of the bio-ecological categories varied according to the season and the distance to sea. Stable fish assemblages were observed in the lower zone at the end of the dry season, in the upper zone during the flood and in the middle zone throughout the year. In some situations, a relative inadequacy between fish assemblages and their environment was noticed. The present study contributes to the definition of the functioning of a “normal” West African estuary, the Gambia estuary, with balanced effects of marine and freshwater influences and the presence of all bio-ecological categories. The Gambia estuary can therefore be considered to be a reference ecosystem for further comparisons with other tropical estuarine ecosystems, subjected to natural or artificial perturbations.

18/463: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/therelevanceofspeciesbasedindicatorsasatoolforevaluatingthestructureofexploitedfishassemblagesacomparativestudyoftwotropicallakesinmaliwestafrica> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : The relevance of species-based indicators as a tool for evaluating the structure of exploited fish assemblages : a comparative study of two tropical lakes in Mali, West Africa
A comparative study of the fish communities in two lake ecosystems in Mali (Lakes Manantali and Selingue) was based on monitoring small-scale fishery landings for a 13-month period. The main difference between the two lakes is the fishing pressure, being higher in Lake Selingue and lower in Lake Manantali. The effects of fishing on the structure of the fish communities in the two lakes were analysed with the use of diversity indices, rank species abundance (RSA) and abundance–biomass comparative curve (ABC) methods. The diversity differed significantly between the lakes, being higher for Lake Selingue. Analysis of the community structure, using RSA curves, indicated a more regular distribution of the weights between fish species for Lake Selingue than for Lake Manantali. The two lakes exhibited different exploited fish community structures. For Lake Selingue, the fishery was based on smaller-sized species, compared to that for Lake Manantali. The indicators based on the species composition of exploited fish communities, in terms of abundance and life-history traits, seemed to be more relevant in this study. Indicators such as diversity indices and RSA curves depend strongly on the exploitation strategy, being unreliable for evaluating exploited fish communities from catch data.

19/464: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foraginghabitatsoftheseabirdcommunityofeuropaislandmozambiquechannel> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Foraging habitats of the seabird community of Europa Island (Mozambique Channel)
We investigated the foraging habitats of the winter breeding community of tropical seabirds from Europa Island (Mozambique Channel) in September 2003. We focused our study on the dominant species of this austral community, the sooty tern (Sterna fuscata), the red-footed booby (Sula sula), and the frigatebirds, including the great (Fregata minor) and the lesser frigatebirds (F. ariel). We considered the at-sea distribution and abundance of these species in relation to chlorophyll concentration, sea-surface temperatures, sea-surface height anomalies, depth of the thermocline, distance to the colony, and presence of surface marine predators, flying fishes and other seabirds. Although the marine environment where seabirds foraged was oligotrophic, it presents the best feeding opportunities for seabirds for the area in winter. Our study demonstrates that the winter-breeding seabird species of Europa Island tend to forage in productive waters in association with other marine predators when possible. Sooty terns and frigatebirds were widely distributed in the whole study area, whereas red-footed boobies were not found farther than 160 km from their colonies and were associated with relatively productive waters. Sooty terns and red-footed boobies were aggregated where flying fishes were abundant. The presence of other marine predators was associated with larger multispecies feeding flocks than when no association occurred. Sooty terns, which are numerically dominant at Europa and adopted network foraging, seem to be catalysts of feeding events, and represented a good target for the other foraging species, especially frigatebirds. However, when possible, frigatebirds favour association with flocks of red-footed boobies.

20/465: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/simulationsoffishingeffectsonthesouthernbenguelafishcommunityusinganindividualbasedmodellearningfromacomparisonwithecosim> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Simulations of fishing effects on the southern benguela fish community using an individual-based model: learning from a comparison with ECOSIM
By applying an individual-based model (OSMOSE) to the southern Benguela ecosystem, a multispecies analysis is proposed, complementary to that provided by the application of ECOPATH/ECOSIM models. To reconstruct marine foodwebs, OSMOSE is based on the hypothesis that predation is a size-structured process. In all, 12 fish species, chosen for their importance in terms of biomass and catches, are explicitly modelled. Growth, reproduction and mortality parameters are required to model their dynamics and trophic interactions. Maps of mean spatial distribution of the species are compiled from published literature. Taking into account the spatial component is necessary because spatial co-occurrence determines potential interactions between predatory fish and prey fish of suitable size. To explore ecosystem effects of fishing, different fishing scenarios, previously examined using ECOSIM, are simulated using the OSMOSE model. They explore the effects of targeting fish species in the southern Benguela considered to be predators (Cape hake Merluccius capensis and M. paradoxus) or prey (anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus, sardine Sardinops sagax, round herring Etrumeus whiteheadi). Simulation results are compared and are generally consistent with those obtained using an ECOSIM model. This cross-validation appears to be a promising means of evaluating the robustness of model outputs, when separate validation of marine ecosystem models are still difficult to perform.

21/466: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/communitystructureandfoodwebbasedonstableisotopednanddcanalysisofanortheasternatlanticmaerlbed> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Community structure and food web based on stable isotope (d15N and d13C) analysis of a North Eastern Atlantic maerl bed




527) Recherche du mot : Sternoptyx diaphana (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sternoptyx_diaphana)


528) Recherche du mot : caldera (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/caldera)


529) Recherche du mot : Rascacios, gallinetas nep (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scorpaenidae)


530) Recherche du mot : Thumbprint emperor (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lophotidae)


531) Recherche du mot : terrasse (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/terrace)


532) Recherche du mot : Snoek (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thyrsites_atun)


533) Recherche du mot : escarpement (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/escarpment)


534) Recherche du mot : Tagging activity (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/tagging_activity)


535) Recherche du mot : Identifiant ICCAT pour un bateau (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/iccatId)


536) Recherche du mot : Prise accessoire (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/bycatch)


537) Recherche du mot : Spirula spirula (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/spirula_spirula)


538) Recherche du mot : diatomées (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/diatom)


539) Recherche du mot : Natosquilla investigatoris (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/natosquilla_investigatoris)
1/467: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/roleofpelagiccrustaceansinthedietofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxintheseychelleswaters> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) in the Seychelles waters
The role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox was investigated from stomach content analysis of fish collected in the waters surrounding the Seychelles Archipelago in the western Indian Ocean. Crustaceans accounted for 88.4% by prey number and 73.7% by reconstituted mass during the South-West monsoon season. During the North-East monsoon season, crustaceans remained the main prey group and accounted for 63.7% by prey number and 46% by reconstituted mass. There was a clear seasonal pattern with the portunid crab Charybdis smithii predominating during the South-West monsoon season and the pelagic stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris during the North-East monsoon season. This pattern likely reflects variations in prey availability linked to current movements around the Seychelles Archipelago. Most of the prey consisted of slow-swimming and small individuals, which occur in dense swarms during the pelagic phase of their life history. The dietary trends of lancetfish are consistent with opportunistic feeding on the most abundant prey. They exploit short food chains based on carnivorous crustaceans, and play an important role in the pelagic trophic functioning of the western Indian Ocean.

2/468: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/theswimmingcrabcharybdissmithiidistributionbiologyandtrophicroleinthepelagicecosystemofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : The swimming crab Charybdis smithii: distribution, biology and trophic role in the pelagic ecosystem of the western Indian Ocean
Surface ‘‘swarms'' of the swimming crabs Charybdis smithii are still considered as an unusual phenomenon in the open Indian Ocean, although their dense pelagic aggregations were already reported in waters off the Indian coast and in the northern Arabian Sea. Based on an extensive large-scale data series taken over 45 years, we demonstrate that C. smithii is common in the pelagic provinces of the western Indian Ocean driven by the wind monsoon regime. Swimming crabs are dispersed by the monsoon currents throughout the equatorial Indian Ocean.They aggregate at night in the upper 150-m layer, where their estimated biomass derived from pelagic trawling data can exceed 130 kg km-2. Abundance of C. smithii can reach >15,000 ind. km-2 in July (i.e. the peak of the southwest monsoon), declines by 50-fold in March and is negligible in May. C. smithii is an important prey for more than 30 species of abundant epipelagic top predators. In turn, it feeds on mesopelagic species. This swimming crab is a major species of the intermediate trophic levels and represents a crucial seasonal trophic link in the open ocean ecosystem of the western Indian Ocean. Outbursts in pelagic waters of huge biomasses of ordinarily benthic crustaceans (C. smithii and Natosquilla investigatoris) are a remarkable feature of the Indian Ocean, although similar, but smaller, events are reported in the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.

3/469: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityinconspecificpredationamonglongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Variability in conspecific predation among longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox in the western Indian Ocean
Conspecific predation among longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox was investigated in four spatio-temporal strate of the western Indian Ocean. The cannibalism level varied from 0 to 45.5% by frequency of occurrence and was negatively related with abundance of non-evasive prey (such as crustaceans Charybdis smithii and Natosquilla investigatoris) and foraging success. Predation by lancetfish is often described as a non-selective process, constrained by local prey availability and by its feeding speed during an attack of prey. Our results show that lancetfish may adapt its opportunistic foraging behavior, feeding on non-conspecific abundant prey such as crustaceans when available, and switching to a high level of conspecific predation in poor waters.

4/470: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thefoodofthreeseabirdsatlathamislandtanzaniawithobservationsonforagingbymaskedboobies> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : The food of three seabirds at Latham Island, Tanzania, with observations on foraging by masked boobies
At  Latham Island, Tanzania, in August 2004 and December 2005, flying fish (Exocoetidae) contributed 90% by mass of prey items regurgitated by masked boobies Sula dactylatra. The fish had a mean caudal length of 164mm. Two boobies generally foraged in deep water, away from the Tanzanian coastline, ranging up to 390km from the island. Maximum distances flown on trips exceeded 1 000km during breeding and approached 3 000km when not breeding. Some foraging trips exceeded six days. Swift terns Sterna bergii consumed small fish and mantis shrimps Natosquilla investigatoris. Mantis shrimps recovered from the colony were significantly larger than those stranded on the island's beach, suggesting that swift terns preferentially took larger animals. Sooty terns Sterna fuscata fed on small fish and squid.

5/471: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragefaunainthedietofthreelargepelagicfishlancetfishswordfishandyellowfintunainthewesternequatorialindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Forage fauna in the diet of three large pelagic fish (lancetfish, swordfish and yellowfin tuna) in the western equatorial Indian Ocean
Prey composition and resource partitioning were investigated among three large pelagic fish predators, yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox), in a poorly known oceanic area, the western Indian Ocean. The contents of 380 non-empty stomachs were analysed from specimens caught with longlines during scientific cruises carried out from 2001 to 2003. Diet data were processed by occurrence, mean proportion by number, wet weight, and mean proportion by reconstituted weight. Crustaceans, dominated by the swimming crab Charybdis smithii and the stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris, were the major food source of lancetfish. Cannibalism was also significant for that species. Yellowfin tunas preyed upon a large diversity of mesopelagic fishes, crustaceans (C. smithii and crab larvae) and cephalopods (the ommastrephid Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis). Mesopelagic fishes (Cubiceps pauciradiatus and Diretmoides parini) and cephalopods (mainly S. oualaniensis) were the main prey of swordfish. Diet overlap between swordfish and yellowfin tuna was evidenced by high Morisita-Horn index. But the feeding habits of these three predators differed by foraging depth and prey size, with swordfish feeding at deeper depths and on larger prey than the more epipelagic lancetfish and yellowfin tuna. Using these three predators as biological samplers, the present study provides novel data on micronekton fauna that is poorly documented in the western Indian Ocean: 67 families and 84 species of prey were recovered in the stomach contents, and our results indicate the presence of large resources of pelagic crustaceans that play a primary role in the epipelagic food chain.



540) Recherche du mot : Fishing operation (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fishing_operation)


541) Recherche du mot : IOTC (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/groupCTOI)
1/472: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/growthratesandapparentgrowthcurvesforyellowfinskipjackandbigeyetaggedandrecoveredintheindianoceanduringtheiottp> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Growth rates and apparent growth curves, for yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tagged and recovered in the Indian Ocean during the IOTTP
This working paper analyzes the apparent growth rates of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tagged and recovered in the Indian Ocean as a function of their sizes. This study is based on the provisional recovery data released in June 2008 by the IOTC secretariat. The first step of the study describes the criteria used to eliminate various potential errors in this provisional recovery file. The analysis concentrates on the estimation of the apparent growth rates of the three species, as a function of their average sizes between tagging and recovery. This analysis does not directly target to fit a theoretical growth model to the recovery data. But apparent growth curves are deduced from growth rates, for the three species and provide size/age relationships which that may well be suitable as an input of assessment models. It was assumed that these observed results are often more realistic than a theoretical growth obtained through an inadequate growth model. These results are compared with the growth patterns previously estimated by scientists and used by the IOTC for its stock assessments. The comparison shows that yellowfin and bigeye growth are clearly following 2 stanza models and not Von Bertalanffy models, as these species are showing slower growth rates at their early juvenile stages. This 2 stanza model is also apparent for skipjack but at a lower degree. It can be noted that growth rates of yellowfin and bigeye appears to be very similar for juvenile fishes under 60 cm (and 4 kg), but later widely different, yellowfin showing a much faster growth than bigeye.

2/473: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwppt> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : IOTC 2008-WPPT-26
Standardized yellowfin and skipjack catch rates of the European purse seine fleets in the Indian ocean from 1984 to 2007 using generalized linear models are presented. Different indexes based on logbooks data for the yellowfin free school catch and yellowfin and skipjack FAD catch have been standardized considering time-space strata, vessel category, as well as environmental effects as explicative variables.
1

3/474: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwpeb> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : IOTC WPEB - 2008/016
Data collected through 20 observer fishing trips were used to quantify
the number of silky sharks taken as bycatch by the French tuna
purse seine fishery of the Western Indian Ocean. 1,385 immature
silky sharks of which 85% was discarded at sea and 15% retained
aboard, were observed as bycatch during 685 fishing sets observed
from October 2005 to April 2008. Zero-inflated regression models
fitted with Bayesian methods were used to explain silky shark
bycatch as a function of fishing mode (free vs. fishing aggregating
device-associated (FAD) schools), area, and season. Model results
showed that silky sharks occurred in 24% of the fishing sets with an
expected number of sharks per set estimated to be 2.02 ± 0.05. The
3 covariates were found to significantly explain both the presence
and number of silky sharks caught by the French purse seiners. FAD
was shown to have a strong positive effect on the number of silky
sharks caught, an expected value of 4.3 sharks being taken in FADassociated
schools versus 0.3 shark in free schools. There were
significant differences in silky shark bycatch between seasons and
areas with higher bycatch than average in July-September and in the
South-East Seychelles area while fewer sharks were expected to be
caught in the North Somali area. Results are discussed within the
context of the ecosystem approach to fisheries for the analysis of
ecosystem effects of fishing.

4/475: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/catchandeffortdataonsoviettunapurseseinefisheriesintheindianoceanbasedondailyradioreportsdatabase> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Catch and effort data on Soviet tuna purse seine fisheries in the Indian Ocean based on daily radio reports database.
General description of YugNIRO database on Soviet tuna purse seine fisheries in the Indian Ocean is presented. Principal sources of the information for database were daily radio reports on operations and on catch composition of purse seiners. Vessel types, temporal schedule of its activities, total catch and data quality, database structure is described. This paper is a supplement for a fine-scale (1-degree/month) catch statistics and activities dataset, presented to IOTC Secretariat.

5/476: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptda> : SCORE = 3.2755096
Doc : IOTC-2008-WPTDA-06


6/477: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/historicaldatabaseonsoviettunalonglinetunaresearchintheindianandatlanticoceansfirstresultsofyugnironmfsdatarescueproject> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : Historical database on Soviet tuna longline tuna research in the Indian and Atlantic oceans (first results of YugNIRO-NMFS data rescue project)
YugNIRO (formerly AzCherNIRO, till 1988), Kerch, Ukraine started tuna research in the Indian Ocean in early 1960-ies and such studies continued till early 1990-ies. For research purposes medium-sized fishing trawlers converted for pelagic longlining were used. Recent data inventory accounted about 130 research, searching, and fishing pelagic longline cruises for 1961-1989 targeted tunas (generally Thunnus), billfishes (Makaira, Tetrapturus, Xiphias gladius), pelagic sharks (Carcharhinus, Isurus, Alopias, Prionace glauca, Galeocerdo cuvier). Other pelagic species were recorded as bycatch. More than 5200 longline sets with about 2.5 millions nominal hooks were shot. For every research cruise the following data were colleted on set by set basis: number of hooks, hooks distribution by depth, total catch, and catch by species. Almost all the fish caught were measured, weighed, and analyzed. Estimated catch depth of every fish was recorded. Environmental data and MBT station data generally available. Due to lack of computer equipment and limited funding throughout years of data sampling this valuable data were stored on paper as logbooks of longline catches and biological analysis. In spite the careful treatment by YugNIRO personnel, there were a danger of loss for these unique data due to natural deterioration of media under time impact, accidents, natural disasters, other extraordinary situations, etc. In late 2002 under support of NMFS and NFWF data “rescue” project which principal goals were preparation of computer database and make this data available for joint YugNIRO/SWFSC analysis and for IOTC and ICCAT was started. “Rescue” is carried out by digitizing of the data, which exist only as manuscripts, in order to store them on computer media in the form of relational database. This project is at the final stage at presents, since most of the data available are in the digital form. These data represent unique dataset for Indian Ocean which could be used as an independent long-term biological and fisheries database as well as additional information to databases of IPTP/IOTC and national databases of other research center. Data and database description, database structure, first results of the database creation, data digitizing, and analyses, and potential access to the data is presented in this paper.

7/478: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

8/479: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

9/480: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/esessioniotc> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : 8e session IOTC
The number of hooks between floats (HBF) is classically considered in standardization studies of the longline fishing effort as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. The explanation of this choice is easy for understanding : an increase of the HBF (then an increase of the length of the mainline between floats represents a increase in fishing depths. Probably, this relationship has been valid for traditional longlines until the end of eighties. However, the modernization of the fishing gear (monofilament mainline, shooter, snaps) has considerably modified the tradition and has led to a wide diversification of setting tactics. As a related consequence of this modernization, HBF has lost his property as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. In this work, we show briefly why the relationship between HPB and the maximum fishing depth is artificial. This hypothesis is supported from a comparative analysis of temporal series of the average HBF and the weight contribution of albacore and bigeye in catches. This fact underlines the problem of the use of HBF in the frame of the measure of the effective fishing effort in longline fisheries (GLM approach). In this context, the necessity of additional information characterizing longlining strategies is discussed.



542) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_sp)


543) Recherche du mot : Sierra grácil (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thyrsitoides_marleyi)


544) Recherche du mot : goldenstriped soapfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/grammistes_sexlineatus)


545) Recherche du mot : Front (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/front)
1/481: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingtheinfluenceofthermalstratificationandcompletemixingonthedistributionandfluxesofpolychlorinatedbiphenylsinthewatercolumnofisprabaylakemaggiore> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Modelling the influence of thermal stratification and complete mixing on the distribution and fluxes of polychlorinated biphenyls in the water column of Ispra Bay (Lake Maggiore)
A 1D coupled hydrodynamic and contaminant fate model was applied to simulate the distribution of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in the Ispra Bay located in the southern part of Lake Maggiore (Italy). The model succeeded in representing the hydrodynamic processes occurring in the lake such as thermal stratification during summer 2005 followed by the complete mixing of the water column in February 2006. The results of the PCB fate model highlighted that these processes play a key role for the settling of particles and consequently for the distribution of PCBs in the water column as well as for the contaminant flux at the sediment–water interface. On the air–water front, the simulations emphasised that the net atmospheric PCB input fluxes are generally more important during the cold season and show peaks during periods of high wet deposition. Finally, the seasonal variability of the distribution of PCB in the water column was assessed.
© 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

2/482: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/chantiergolfedegascogne> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Chantier Golfe de gascogne
L'action des engins de pêche sur le fond a déjà été décrite, filmée. La comparaison de prélèvements dans le secteur de la Grande Vasière réalisés à 30 ans d'intervalle met en évidence une évolution de la faune et de la nature du fond (Le Loch, 2004). Mais peu de chiffres argumentés permettent de quantifier l'impact des engins de pêche sur le fond.
Cette étude pluridisciplinaire se base sur :
- une connaissance de la structure sédimentaire du plateau de la Grande Vasière,
- une analyse des phénomènes en jeu dans le cycle dépôt-remobilisation de la colonne sédimentaire (apports fluviaux, front thermo-halin, houle, courant, organismes fouisseurs,….),
- une typologie des engins de pêche utilisés sur le plateau et un descriptif (largeur balayée, enfoncement, …) de l'action de chacun des éléments (bourrelet, chaîne, bras, panneau)
- une sélection de l'effort de pêche 2003 pour 6 classes de longueur de navire, 9 carrés statistiques, 2 types d'engin (chalut simple ou jumeau) et 2 types de prises (langoustines ou non : différenciation des efforts focalisés sur la Grande Vasière de ceux également répartis dans les carrés statistiques ).
Les résultats portent sur la surface balayée et la quantité de sédiments fins remis en suspension. La paramétrisation des formules permet de tester l'influence de tels ou tels éléments dans le bilan global.
Ainsi chaque mètre carré de la Grande Vasière est balayé au minimum 6 fois par an. La remobilisation des sédiments fins par les engins de pêche est comparable à la remobilisation par les tempêtes.

3/483: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howcansciencecontributetoanecosystemapproachtopelagicdemersalandrocklobsterfisheriesinsouthafrica> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : How can science contribute to an ecosystem approach to pelagic, demersal and rock lobster fisheries in South Africa?
South Africa is committed to moving towards an Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries (EAF) and has laid the foundations for this using a three-pronged approach: through a project (EAF Feasibility Study) under the Benguela Current Large Marine Ecosystem Programme; through a dedicated scientific working group established by the Marine and Coastal Management branch of South Africa's Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism; and through collaborative scientific and modelling studies within the joint French-South African ‘Upwelling Ecosystems' Programme. This contribution provides an overview of the progress made towards developing an EAF in South Africa, both on the scientific front in terms of improved understanding of the functioning of the Benguela ecosystem and the ways in which its ecosystem components interact, and regarding the practical ways being explored to enable scientific advice to feed in to South African fisheries management while taking into account broad stakeholder concerns. The paper focusses particularly on the role played by scientific contributions (research and monitoring) to address these ecosystem issues in three important South African fisheries — pelagic, demersal and rock lobster — so that the appropriate management measures can be put into place. Socio-economic concerns are included for the rock lobster fishery.

4/484: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatiotemporalhabitatusebybreedingsootyshearwaterspuffinusgriseus> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Spatio-temporal habitat use by breeding sooty shearwaters Puffinus griseus
Breeding sooty shearwaters (Puffinus griseus) cycle between long (11-14 days) and short (1-2 days) foraging bouts at sea, but no information exists on bird behaviour during these trips. We tested the hypothesis that shearwaters use these long trips to travel to distant Antarctic waters compared to remaining in local waters. Patterns of habitat use of 28 breeding sooty shearwaters were studied using 6-g archival data loggers that recorded location, environmental temperature, and diving behaviour. Dive activity was compared to remotely-sensed environmental data to characterize the habitats visited by shearwaters on long and short trips. Indeed, sooty shearwaters traveled predominantly (70% of all long trips) to cold oceanic waters along the Polar Front (1,970 ± 930 km from colony) on long trips or remained within warmer neritic waters of the New Zealand shelf (515 ± 248 km from colony) on short trips. Diving depths (mean depth 15.9 ± 10.8 m, max depth 69.9 m, N = 2,007 dives) were not statistically different between excursion types. Activity patterns suggest that shearwaters commuted between distant foraging grounds (e.g., Polar Front) and the breeding colony and that more than 95% of diving activity occurred during daylight hours. Although shearwaters traveled primarily to Antarctic waters on long trips, occasional trips around New Zealand waters were observed; all but two birds were from the northern most study colony. Oceanic habitats in Antarctic waters were substantially different from neritic habitats around New Zealand indicating that shearwaters experience dramatically different environmental conditions associated with each excursion type. The ability of sooty shearwaters to utilize two vastly different habitats provides greater flexibility for maximizing resource acquisition during breeding and reduces competition near the colony

5/485: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/alongshoreandtemporalvariabilityinchlorophyllaconcentrationinchileannearshorewaters> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Alongshore and temporal variability in chlorophyll a concentration in Chilean nearshore waters
Phytoplankton and particulate organic matter constitute the primary food source for adult filter-feeders, as well as for larval stages of many benthic and pelagic organisms. The structure and dynamics of nearshore benthic communities may be associated with variation in nearshore primary production. However, we know little about the scales of variability in phytoplankton in nearshore waters along open coasts, or about their causes. To characterize spatial and temporal patterns of chl a concentration, we conducted 2.5 yr of daily, shore-based monitoring at 3 sites separated by 10s of km within an upwelling region in central Chile. We found that: (1) peaks in chl a concentration were typically short-lived, persisting no longer than 4 d, (2) blooms occurred in spring to early summer months at all sites, but also during autumn months at 1 site (Las Cruces), and (3) the intensity and frequency of blooms were consistently different among sites; highest concentrations were at Las Cruces, lower at El Quisco, and the lowest at Quintay. Analyses of wind data and surface temperature, and inspection of Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) satellite images, suggested that among-site differences were due, at least in part, to alongshore variation in upwelling intensity and the formation of warm-water pockets or upwelling shadows in sections of the coast, such as Las Cruces. In contrast to the spatial pattern described offshore and over larger spatial scales, chl a concentrations were significantly lower at the coldest site, Quintay, located at the core of an upwelling center (Pta. Curaumilla), than at the warmer site of Las Cruces, which lies downstream from upwelling. Day-to-day variation in chl a levels during spring at Las Cruces seems related to the alongshore intrusion of waters upwelled upstream. Overall, the pattern observed at our 3 sites, together with previous studies at other upwelling systems, suggests that sections of the coast around 15 to 20 km downstream (equatorward) from upwelling centers could exhibit consistently higher phytoplankton concentrations than sites located in front of upwelling centers, generating a source-sink type of geographic pattern of nearshore nutrients and phytoplankton along the coast.

6/486: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thermalandtrophichabitatsoftheleatherbackturtleduringthenestingseasoninfrenchguiana> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Thermal and trophic habitats of the leatherback turtle during the nesting season in French Guiana
Understanding environmental cues determining behaviour and habitat use of species of conservation
concern is crucial if one aims at implementing sustainable management of these natural resources. In this
way, here, we investigate the thermal and trophic conditions encountered by the critically endangered
leatherback sea turtle Dermochelys coriacea during its nesting season in French Guiana where high bycatch
rates have been reported.
Mean sea water temperatures obtained in situ by animal-borne recorders were 26.6±0.7 °C in the water
column, with all but one turtle remaining in water N25 °C during the inter-nesting interval. In terms of prey
availability, regular jellyfish stranding events were recorded during the nesting season, on a 1.25-km long
section of the nesting beach. The occurrence of jellyfish was supported by benthic trawls performed on the
continental shelf, with a total of 45.4 kg of jellyfish collected in 3.5 h exclusively in coastal waters 10 to 20 m
deep where water transparency was between 0.8 and 3 m. This is consistent with the at sea distribution area
of gravid leatherbacks during their inter-nesting intervals, as they spent almost 70% of their time diving in
shallow (b20 m deep) waters in front of the Maroni River estuary. In French Guiana, leatherback's gelatinous
prey are thus present in very shallow water close to the nesting site and may be easily exploited by active
gravid leatherbacks. This suggests that French Guiana female leatherbacks may be influenced by local trophic
conditions and actively prospect productive areas overlapping with local fisheries ground.

7/487: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/phytoplanktondistributionintheagulhassystemfromacoupledphysicalbiologicalmodel> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Phytoplankton distribution in the Agulhas system from a coupled physical-biological model
The greater Agulhas Current system has several components with high mesoscale turbulence. The phytoplankton distribution in the southwest Indian Ocean reflects this activity. We have used a regional eddy-permitting, coupled physical-biological model to study the physical-biological interactions and to address the main processes responsible for phytoplankton distribution in three different biogeochemical provinces: the southwest Subtropical Indian Gyre (SWSIG), the subtropical convergence zone (SCZ) and the subantarctic waters (SAW) south of South Africa. The biological model with four compartments (Nitrate-Phytoplankton-Zooplankton-Detritus) adequately reproduces the observed field of chlorophyll a. The phase of the strong modelled seasonality in the SWSIG is opposite to that of the SCZ that forms the southern boundary of the subtropical gyre. Phytoplankton concentrations are governed by the source-minus-sink terms, which are one order of magnitude greater than the dynamical diffusion and advection terms. North of 35°S, in the SWSIG, phytoplankton growth is limited by nutrients supply throughout the year. However, deeper stratification, enhanced cross-frontal transport and higher detritus remineralization explain the simulated higher concentrations of phytoplankton found in winter in the SWSIG. The region between 35° and 40S constitutes a transition zone between the SCZ and the oligotrophic subtropical province. Horizontal advection is the main process bringing nutrients for phytoplankton growth. The front at 34 °S represents a dynamical barrier to an extension further to the north of this advection of nutrients. Within the SCZ, primary production is high during spring and summer. This high productivity depletes the nutrient standing stock built up during winter time. In winter, nutrients supply in the convergence zone is indeed large, but the deep mixing removes phytoplankton from the euphotic zone and inhibits photosynthesis, yielding lower surface chlorophyll a concentrations. Waters south of the Subantarctic Front have a summer biomass close to that of frontal waters and higher than for subtropical waters. However, these simulated concentrations are slightly higher than the observed ones suggesting that limitation by iron and/or silica may play a role.



546) Recherche du mot : Red steenbras (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/petrus_rupestris)


547) Recherche du mot : Alepisaurus brevirostris (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alepisaurus_brevirostris)


548) Recherche du mot : Quick Scatterometer (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/QuikSCAT)


549) Recherche du mot : shelf edge (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/shelfEdge)
1/488: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hfradarderivedoriginanddestinationofsurfacewatersoffbodegabaycalifornia> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : HF radar-derived origin and destination of surface waters off Bodega Bay, California
As an integral part of the WEST study of the role of wind-driven transport in shelf productivity, HF radar currents are analyzed to determine typical surface flow patterns off Bodega Bay in northern California. Radar-derived surface trajectories and surface velocity divergences are used to determine the proximal origins and destinations of surface waters in the area. Surface trajectory results show a strong bimodality, with water over the entire shelf originating in the north under upwelling conditions and waters over the inner/mid-shelf originating in the south during relaxation conditions. Outer shelf waters have more variable transport patterns during relaxation conditions, with limited equatorward or onshore movements being most typical. The destinations of surface waters starting at the outer shelf are predominantly offshore, with the majority of particles exiting the radar domain west of Pt Reyes along the shelf edge in less than 2 days. Significant proportions of water from the inner/mid-shelf are exported southward and exit the radar domain inshore or within 20 km of the tip of Pt Reyes, creating possibilities for either nearshore retention in the Bodega region or entrainment of water into the Gulf of Farallons. Approximately 15% of all trajectories remained in the radar domain for 6 days, suggesting that a biologically significant percentage of larvae might be retained in the area for time periods approaching typical larval durations. Calculations of surface divergence indicate where vertical flux may be significant. An extensive area of positive divergence is observed off Bodega during upwelling conditions, while weakly convergent flow is observed where upwelling flows approach Pt Reyes. Positive divergence also is observed during relaxation periods when poleward flow separates from the shore just north of Pt Reyes. Estimates of vertical flux in these divergence zones point to a significant contribution of recently upwelled waters to the observed horizontal fluxes at the surface. Determination of the ultimate source and fate of phytoplankton-rich waters requires further analysis of the detailed time dependence of phytoplankton concentration relative to the time dependence of wind-forced currents. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.



550) Recherche du mot : shark-sucker (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/remora_remora)


551) Recherche du mot : Luria escamuda cafetal (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pholidoteuthis_boschmai)


552) Recherche du mot : Atlant. yellow-nosed albatross (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thalassarche_chlororhynchos)


553) Recherche du mot : Escolar (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lepidocybium_flavobrunneum)


554) Recherche du mot : Taractes rubescens (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/taractes_rubescens)


555) Recherche du mot : ridge (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ridge)
1/489: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/cireneairseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Cirene: Air—Sea Interactions in the Seychelles—Chagos Thermocline Ridge Region
The Vasco—Cirene program ex-plores how strong air—sea inter-actions promoted by the shallow thermocline and high sea surface temperature in the Seychelles—Chagos thermocline ridge results in marked variability at synoptic, intraseasonal, and interannual time scales. The Cirene oceano-graphic cruise collected oceanic, atmospheric, and air—sea flux observations in this region in Jan-uary—February 2007. The contem-poraneous Vasco field experiment complemented these measure-ments with balloon deployments from the Seychelles. Cirene also contributed to the development of the Indian Ocean observing system via deployment of a moor-ing and 12 Argo profilers.Unusual conditions prevailed in the Indian Ocean during Janu-ary and February 2007, following the Indian Ocean dipole climate anomaly of late 2006. Cirene measurements show that the Seychelles—Chagos thermocline ridge had higher-than-usual heat content with subsurface anomalies up to 7°C. The ocean surface was warmer and fresher than average, and unusual eastward currents prevailed down to 800 m. These anomalous conditions had a major impact on tuna fishing in early 2007. Our dataset also sampled the genesis and maturation of Tropical Cyclone Dora, including high surface temperatures and a strong diurnal cycle before the cyclone, followed by a 1.5°C cool-ing over 10 days. Balloonborne instruments sampled the surface and boundary layer dynamics of Dora. We observed small-scale structures like dry-air layers in the atmosphere and diurnal warm layers in the near-surface ocean. The Cirene data will quantify the impact of these finescale features on the upper-ocean heat budget and atmospheric deep convection.

2/490: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/vascocirenemeasurementssupplementdecireneairseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 1.013309
Doc : 'Vasco–Cirene measurements', supplément de "Cirene: Air–Sea Interactions in the Seychelles–Chagos Thermocline Ridge Region"
T
he Vasco–Cirene field experiment, in January–
February 2007, targeted the Seychelles–Chagos
thermocline ridge (SCTR) region, with the main purpose of investigating Madden–Julian Oscillation (MJO)-related SST events. The Validation of the Aeroclipper System under Convective Occurrences (Vasco) experiment (Duvel et al. 2009) and Cirene cruise were designed to provide complementary views of air–sea interaction in the SCTR region. While meteorological balloons were deployed from the Seychelles as a part of Vasco, the Research Vessel (R/V) Suroît was cruising the SCTR region as a part of Cirene.[...]

3/491: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/airseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Air-sea interactions in the Seychelles-Chagos thermocline ridge region
A field experiment in the southwestern Indian Ocean provides new insights into ocean–atmosphere interactions in a key climatic region.



556) Recherche du mot : Psenes arafurensis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/psenes_arafurensis)


557) Recherche du mot : palangre (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/longline)
1/492: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/utilisationdunlanceurdelignedanslapechealapalangrederivanteprofondeguidealintentiondespecheurs> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Utilisation d'un lanceur de ligne dans la pêche à la palangre dérivante profonde : Guide à l'intention des pêcheurs
Document technique SFA, 19pp.

2/493: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anneesdepechealapalangremondialementquelsenseignementsetquestionsscientifiques> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : 55 années de pêche à la palangre mondialement : quels enseignements et questions scientifiques


3/494: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.



558) Recherche du mot : Marine resources management (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/marine_resources_management)


559) Recherche du mot : sondeur latéral (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/sondeur_lateral)


560) Recherche du mot : stock (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/stock)
1/495: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/roleofpredationbyharpsealspagophilusgroenlandicusinthecollapseandnonrecoveryofnortherngulfofstlawrencecodgadusmorhua> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Role of predation by harp seals Pagophilus groenlandicus in the collapse and non-recovery of northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod Gadus morhua
A statistical catch-at-age model was developed to assess the effects of predation by the northwest Atlantic harp seal population on northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod by estimating the relative importance of different sources of mortality that affected the stock during a period of collapse and non-recovery. Cod recruitment at age 1 is modeled via a non-linear stock-recruitment relationship based on total egg production and accounts for changes in female length-at-maturity and cod condition. Natural mortality other than seal predation also depends on cod condition used as an integrative index of changes in environmental conditions. The linkage between seals and cod is modeled through a multi-age functional response that was derived from the reconstruction of the seal diet using morphometric relationships and stomach contents of more than 200 seals collected between 1998 and 2001. The model was fitted following a maximum likelihood estimation approach to a scientific survey abundance index (1984 to 2006). Model results show that the collapse of the northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod stock was mainly due to the combination of high fishing mortality rates and poor environmental conditions in the early to mid-1990s contributing to the current state of recruitment overfishing. The increase in harp seal abundance during 1984 to 2006 was reflected by an increase in predation mortality for the young cod age-groups targeted by seals. Although current levels of predation mortality affect cod spawning biomass, the lack of recovery of the NGSL cod stock seems mainly due to the very poor recruitment.

2/496: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evaluationdustockdepoulpeparlapprochestructuraleetanalysedelimpactdelarretbiologiqueinfaillerp> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Evaluation du stock de poulpe par l'approche structurale et analyse de l'impact de «l'arrêt biologique» In : Failler, P


3/497: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/movementsoftropicaltunasfromthetunaassociatedbaitboatfisheryofdakarandfrombetypandhistoricaltaggingoperationsintheatlanticocean> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Movements of tropical tunas from the tuna-associated baitboat fishery of Dakar and from BETYP and historical tagging operations in the Atlantic Ocean
Tagging operations were conducted in the northern part of the Dakar baitboat fishing area
(13°N-21°N/15°W-25°W) from 1994 to 2000 (MAC program) and in the eastern Atlantic Ocean
by the BETYP program from 1999 to 2003. BETYP tagging took place in the Gulf of Guinea, in
Mauritania-Senegal (in collaboration with MAC), in the Canary, Madeira and Azores islands.
Movements of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye from Dakar baitboats are presented together with
tuna movements obtained from BETYP recoveries. These data are compared with movements
from historical tagging operations conducted from 1955 to 1998 in the entire Atlantic Ocean.
More emphasis is put on bigeye, as the main objective of BETYP is to obtain a better
understanding of bigeye stock structure and other parameters relevant to stock assessment.

4/498: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/workshoponmappingandgeostatisticalmethodsforfisheriesstockassessment> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Workshop on Mapping and Geostatistical Methods for Fisheries Stock Assessment
The NAFO Scientific Council Special Session of September 2003 was the Workshop on Mapping and Geostatistical Methods for Fisheries Stock Assessment. The objective of the workshop was to provide participants with the basic understanding of geostatistical conceptes and methods, and provide tools to apply this knowledge to fisheries stock assessments. The instructors introduced freeware mapping and geostatistical software. Two sets of data were used for the lessons and demonstrations: the Canadian spring bottom trawl survey data from 1996 to 2002, and information from the yellowtail flounder commercial fishery on the Grand Bank from 1996 to 2002. The visualization, analysis and modeling of spatial data using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) were presented (e.g. Ocean Data View (ODV freeware), SPAN (Spatial Analysis System) and ACON (A CONtouring package). Surface (map) generating techniques were demonstrated using the various software packges. Geostatistical concepts and methods related to kriging, and methods for analyses using basics of the "R" software package were described.

5/499: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/interamericantropicaltunacommissionthmeeting> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Inter-American tropical Tuna Commission, 8th meeting
1- Introduction:

Statistical models that are increasingly used nowadays by various tuna RFO and by the IATTC, are
clearly very interesting, but it appears, when reading the recent IATTC results, that the main results
obtained by these complex models are often very difficult to follow.
This note will discuss this present lack of transparency in the present stock
assessment reports, and it will make practical recommendations allowing to better understand
the basic input data as well as the main results obtained from these models.

6/500: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/onthenorthatlanticalbacorestockandonitspotentialsubpopulations> : SCORE = 1.7371012
Doc : On the North Atlantic albacore stock and on its potential sub populations
This paper discusses the potential biological heterogeneity of the North Atlantic albacore stock. Based on the historical work by Aloncle and Delaporte in 1974, the paper keeps the hypothesis that at least 3 sub populations, well stratified & following an east west gradient of longitude, could have been exploited by the albacore surface fisheries. This heterogeneity of the stock has not been taken into account in the present stock assessment by SCRS, but it could play a major role in the fishery trend, as the present shrinking of the historical fishing zones could have produced a decline of the present stock MSY. Scientific investigations are actively recommended to solve this major uncertainty in the stock structure of the Northern Atlantic albacore stock and to better evaluate its potential impact on the stock assessment results.

7/501: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/growthratesandapparentgrowthcurvesforyellowfinskipjackandbigeyetaggedandrecoveredintheindianoceanduringtheiottp> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Growth rates and apparent growth curves, for yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tagged and recovered in the Indian Ocean during the IOTTP
This working paper analyzes the apparent growth rates of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tagged and recovered in the Indian Ocean as a function of their sizes. This study is based on the provisional recovery data released in June 2008 by the IOTC secretariat. The first step of the study describes the criteria used to eliminate various potential errors in this provisional recovery file. The analysis concentrates on the estimation of the apparent growth rates of the three species, as a function of their average sizes between tagging and recovery. This analysis does not directly target to fit a theoretical growth model to the recovery data. But apparent growth curves are deduced from growth rates, for the three species and provide size/age relationships which that may well be suitable as an input of assessment models. It was assumed that these observed results are often more realistic than a theoretical growth obtained through an inadequate growth model. These results are compared with the growth patterns previously estimated by scientists and used by the IOTC for its stock assessments. The comparison shows that yellowfin and bigeye growth are clearly following 2 stanza models and not Von Bertalanffy models, as these species are showing slower growth rates at their early juvenile stages. This 2 stanza model is also apparent for skipjack but at a lower degree. It can be noted that growth rates of yellowfin and bigeye appears to be very similar for juvenile fishes under 60 cm (and 4 kg), but later widely different, yellowfin showing a much faster growth than bigeye.

8/502: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofyearsofiattcbigeyestockassessmentsintheeasternpacificocean> : SCORE = 1.2410451
Doc : An overview of 10 years of IATTC bigeye stock assessments in the Eastern Pacific Ocean
This working paper examines and discusses the bigeye stock assessment results obtained by the IATTC since 2000. It concludes that there was a large variability, uncertainties and potential bias in these past results, while these basic problems were seldom or never discussed in the yearly assessment reports. The paper tries to identify the potential causes that could explain these often wide uncertainties. A combination of statistical, biological and modelling uncertainties have been identified and they are discussed in the paper. In its conclusions, the paper makes a series of research recommendations that would improve the future quality of the bigeye stock assessment in the EPO.

9/503: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteonthestockstructureofpacificbigeyetunatobeusedinstockassessments> : SCORE = 0.91553277
Doc : Note on the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna to be used in stock assessments
This paper reviews and discusses the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna in relation with the prospects of stock assessment analysis of this population. The analysis of fishery data, mainly the spatio temporal bigeye catches by gear and by sizes, indicates that the present 150°W frontier based on historical and administrative results does not appear to be a convenient biological frontier. Our conclusion is that the present lack of significant tag recoveries across the 150°W frontier should not be considered as being significant, due to the limited numbers of bigeye presently tagged and to the great distances between present tagging locations. North South movements of adult bigeye are also a potential source of mixing between eastern and western bigeye populations. It is hypothetized that there could be an increased net flow of juvenile bigeye towards the WCPO due to the increased number of FADs in the western EPO. Our conclusion is that all the bigeye stock assessments by WCPFC and the IATTC should preferably be conducted in a unified best model and at a Pacific wide scale. A large scale tagging programme covering the distribution area of the entire bigeye population and fully coordinated between WCPFC and IATTC would be necessary to obtain realistic and age specific movement patterns at a Pacific wide level. Management actions of the bigeye stocks should also be fully coordinated between the Western and Eastern stocks, because of the probably weak biological frontier and also because of the bigeye long life span. The long term management benefits or failures will probably be shared by WCPFC and IATTC.

10/504: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/aworkingproposalforayellowfingrowthcurvetobeusedduringtheyellowfinstockassessment> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : A working proposal for a Yellowfin growth curve to be used during the 2008 yellowfin stock assessment
This paper explains why the modelled growth curve proposed for YFT and using the Laslett et al model is heavily biased and that it should not be used to do the stock assessment analysis during the Bangkok meeting. An alternate ad hoc observed growth curve and a subsequent method allowing to slice the Catch at age table into a catch at age is proposed. The paper also recommends to model the YFT growth using a 3 stanza model.

11/505: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/cultivationalleeeffectandresilienceoflargedemersalfishpopulations> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Cultivation, Allee effect and resilience of large demersal fish populations
In the marine environment, small forage species can predate on, or compete with, the pre-recruits of their larger predators. The “cultivation effect” hypothesis proposes that this mechanism can slow down the recovery of depleted populations of large demersal fishes by creating Allee effects that lower their recruitment success. Using an individual based fish community model applied to the southern Benguela ecosystem, we simulate situations of potential cultivation effect on a population of shallow water hake Merluccius capensis. We search for evidence of Allee effects due to cultivation and investigate how complex trophic interactions could influence their underlying mechanisms and impact. The resilience of the shallow water hake population was measured by following the variations of the ratio R/S (the number of recruits over the number of spawners) when population size decreases and the predators and competitors of shallow water hake pre-recruits were identified. Simulations suggest that cultivation effects are likely to emerge within the fish community of the southern Benguela ecosystem. Our twelve species model emphasizes that cultivation effects result from complex influences of predation and competition on the different pre-recruit stages, whose trophic role depends on both body size and geographical distribution. For realistic linkages between forage species and shallow water hake pre-recruits, cultivation effects occurring in the limits of the southern Benguela fish community are predicted to delay population recovery by several decades. These significant delays are not characterized by a decrease of R/S at low stock size, which is the sign usually tracked when looking for Allee effects. Our study suggests that cultivation effects could play a major role in the dynamics of overexploited large demersal fish populations and pleads for the development of improved detection techniques for these processes.

12/506: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimatesofhistoricchangesintotalmortalityandselectivityforeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamisfromlengthcompositiondata> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Estimates of historic changes in total mortality and selectivity for  Eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) from length composition data
Catch-at-size data of the eastern Atlantic skipjack were used to estimate changes in total mortality from 1969 to 2007. We used a transitional model of mean length that generalized the Beverton-Holt mortality estimator to allow change in mortality rate under nonequilibrium conditions. Then, from homogeneous periods of time, length-converted catch curves were used to access qualitative changes in selectivity patterns for two surface fisheries (the baitboat fishery operating from Dakar, Senegal, and the European and associated purse seine fisheries). To explore the impact of catch on the mortality rate, a Bayesian change-point analysis was conducted on the catch time series to detect concomitant variation between mortality rates and catch. Finally, potential causes of these changes are discussed in relation to the implementation of new fishing technology, such fish aggregating devices (FAD). The general pattern depicted by total mortality is in agreement with previous knowledge on this fishery: a state of complete or practically complete exploitation during the nineties followed by the decrease in nominal purse seine fishing effort in the last decade, combined with the effect of a seasonal moratorium on FAD fishing operations. There was no evidence of a change in selectivity between the two contrasted periods of time considered: 1969-1979 and 1986-1999; the second period being characterized by the introduction of new technology onboard vessels. In contrast, the covariation over time between total catch and mortality rate three years later highlights the effect of the fishing pressure on the stock of eastern Atlantic skipjack.

13/507: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/decadalenvironmentalandecologicalchangesinthecanarycurrentlargemarineecosystemandadjacentwaterspatternsofconnectionsandteleconnection> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Decadal environmental and ecological changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem and adjacent waters : Patterns of connections and teleconnection
In order to explore decadal changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem (LME), wind and SST data collected by merchant ships are extracted from the Comprehensive Ocean Atmosphere Data Set (COADS) database from 1950 to 1995 within sixteen boxes along the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from 10°N up to 43°N.  Potential biases are reviewed and discussed when considering long-term changes and large spatial resolution. The heterogeneity of the seasonal patterns in the Canary current is described.  Decadal environmental changes are explored using Sea Surface Temperature (SST) data.  In the early and mid-1970s, an intensive cooling had a large latitudinal extension that affected the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from Spain to Senegal.  This cooling period was followed by a warming period, which started in the 1980s. Fisheries, fish stock abundance as well as fish population distributions have drastically changed during the last five decades. The sardine populations off Morocco widely fluctuated in a disconnected manner and a substantial increase in biomass was observed in fishing zone C (located between 20°N and 27°N) during the mid-1970s and mid-1980s. Several outbursts of fish populations (Micromesistius poutassou, Macrorhamphosus scolopax and M. gracilis, Octopus vulgaris, Balistes carolinensis) were observed during the last three decades in the Canary Current. In the case of the latter species it was connected with the outburst populations which took place in the Gulf of Guinea LME.  Upwelling intensity and sea surface temperature are strongly linked and are thought to affect both spatial distribution and abundance of fish in the Canary Current LME.  Ecosystems appear to be connected at very large scales through climatic teleconnection between the Northern and Central Atlantic but also between the Pacific and the Atlantic as the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index and the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events seem to have a major impact on the dynamics of the upwelling in the Canary Current.

14/508: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/onthemajorinteresttodoallyellowfinstockassessmentanalysisintheeasternpacificsinceorbefore> : SCORE = 1.6249094
Doc : On the major interest to do all yellowfin stock assessment analysis in the Eastern Pacific since 1950, or before
This paper examine the shifting base line syndrome faced by the yellowfin stock assessment done by the IATTC staff, as when its historical stock assessment were starting in 1934, all the present stock assessment start only in 1975. The paper concludes that future yellowfin stock assessment should be conducted starting since the beginning of the yellowfin fisheries, for instance in 1920. Such extended analysis should be based on an the results of ad hoc data mining program allowing to recover and to incorporate in the IATTC data base all these historical data. The assessment model should also be modified in order to fully use all these new data and the major changes in stock and fisheries (for instance in catchabilities, size selectivities and fishing zones). It is concluded that such extended analysis covering the early fishery should widely improve the modelling of present stock status and the validity of the estimated MSY.

15/509: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/atlanticbluefintunacenturiesoffluctuatingfisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Atlantic bluefin tuna: 100 centuries of fluctuating fisheries
This document reviews the major changes observed in the several bluefin fisheries that have been identified in various areas of the Atlantic and Mediterranean Sea during the last 10000 years. This study first briefly reviews the multiple fisheries that have already been active in prehistorical and historical times and the beginning of 20th century, during which major industrial fishing activities have been permanently developed on bluefin, especially in the Mediterranean Sea. The analysis of the fishing activities during the last 50 years is highly focused on the catch and effort data of Japanese longliners, because this fleet has been heavily targeting bluefin and providing the best and longest statistical series available, these data covering a wide geographical area. This historical analysis of bluefin fisheries shows the large scale yearly migrations of bluefin tunas between its spawning and feeding zones. It also shows that bluefin tunas have been historically fished in a very wide range of ecosystems and that and showing a great variability in the targeted time and area strata. The paper describes and discusses this major variability of the bluefin fishing strata that remains widely unexplained. Further data mining and ad hoc research should allow to better explain this major variability of the bluefin fisheries that has been playing an indirect but probably significant role in past and present stock assessments of both Western and Eastern Atlantic stocks.

16/510: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thekeyimportanceoftheunderlyingstockrecruitmentassumptionwhenevaluatingthepotentialofmanagementregulationsofatlanticbluefintuna> : SCORE = 1.253645
Doc : The key importance of the underlying stock-recruitment assumption when evaluating the potential of management regulations of Atlantic bluefin tuna
The aim of this study is to investigate the implications of different stock-recruitment assumptions when examining the potential of Dubrovnik's bluefin tuna recovery plan. To do so, some Beverton and Holt relationships displaying contrasting steepness of 0.99, 0.90, 0.75 and 0.50 were applied within a simulation model. In addition to these four stock-recruitment scenarios, parental effects and stochastic variations were also considered. The main conclusion is that our ability to evaluate the consequences of the Dubrovnik agreement (as any set of management measures) relies on our capacity to predict future recruitment levels in an accurate way. Assuming a Beverton and Holt relationship with different steepness, with or without parental effects and with or without stochastic variations led to contrasting outputs, i.e. from a significant rebuilding of the simulated population within 15 years to the crash of this same simulated population. This outcome is somewhat problematic, as we are unable to properly estimate the stock-recruitment relationship for the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock. Consequently, it is crucial to clearly state recruitment assumptions when an advice is given and to consider a significant range of contrasting and realistic stock-recruitment relationships.

17/511: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingforecastingandscenariosincomparableupwellingecosystemscaliforniacanaryandhumboldt> : SCORE = 0.30707902
Doc : Modelling, forecasting and scenarios in comparable upwelling ecosystems: California, Canary and Humboldt
The three eastern boundary ecosystems comparable to the Benguela ecosystem (BCE)
display differences and commonalities. The California (CalCE) and Humboldt Current
(HCE) ecosystems are continuous topographically, whereas the Canary Current
ecosystem (CanCE) is interrupted by the Gulf of Cadiz and the Canaries archipelago.
All have similar regimes of equatorward flow over shelf and slope associated with
upwelling and a subsurface poleward flow over the slope, though in the HCE multiple
flows and counter-flows appear offshore. All systems exhibit year round upwelling in
their centre and seasonal upwelling at their extremes as the trade wind systems that
drive them migrate north and south, though the HCE is strongly skewed toward the
equator. All systems vary on scales from the event or synoptic scale of a few days,
through seasonal, to inter-decadal and long term. Productivity of each system follows
the upwelling cycle, though intra-regional variations in nutrient content and forcing
cause significant variability within regions. The CanCE is relatively unproductive
compared to the CalCE and HCE as a result of differences in large scale circulation
between the Pacific and Atlantic. The latter two systems are dominated by El Niño -
Southern Oscillation (ENSO) variability on a scale of 4-7 years. Physical modeling
with the Princeton Ocean Model and the Regional Oceanic Modeling System has
advanced recently to the stage of reproducing realistic mesoscale features and energy
levels with climatic wind forcing. Operational forecasting by these models with
assimilation of sea surface temperature and other data is successfully implemented in
CalCE. On longer time scales, the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory model is able
to hindcast El Niño variability over the long term up to 2 years in advance. Empirical
ecological models in all three systems have attempted prediction of permissible catch
level (fractional Maximum Sustainable Yield), recruitment, catches or onset of
migration with lack of continued success, partly because discontinuous or inadequate
observations hamper model implementation and assessment. Moreover, empirical
models tuned to particular environments fail when fundamental regime shifts occur.
One of the most successful approaches is that of intensive monitoring of catch and
188 P. Fréon
environmental parameters linked to an informal Operational Management Procedure
(OMP) to inform fisheries management off Peru. This OMP contributed to
preservation of anchovy stock during the 1997-8 El Niño but remains to be formalized
or tested under varying conditions. Prediction on time scales of global warming are
uncertain because physical climate models still disagree on whether upwelling will
intensify or weaken. Possible scenarios on decadal scale based on warming or cooling
of waters in the Eastern Boundary Current systems can be proffered, albeit with little
confidence at present. Future approaches for all systems, including the BCE, will in
the long run likely combine coupled atmospheric/ocean models with biological process
models. Judicious application of purely statistical modeling based on inherent time
series properties will assist, though such techniques are unable to cope with regime
shifts.

18/512: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/scrstowardsclearandfirmiccatreportsonatlanticbluefintunastocksanopenlettertothebluefingroupandtothescrs> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : SCRS 2006: Towards clear and firm ICCAT reports on Atlantic bluefin tuna stocks? An open letter to the bluefin group and to the SCRS
This paper is based on the fact that the recent SCRS reports on bluefin tuna are not very clear
to show the gravity of the ICCAT problems in its statistics, research and assessment for this
species. The Atlantic bluefin population is now probably facing in the short or medium terms a
high risk of potentially irreversible over-fishing. However this severe risk is not clearly visible
in the recent SCRS analysis because of the difficulties to run a realistic stock assessment on
these stocks when most of the basic data are missing. This paper makes a recommendation that
SCRS should write its bluefin report using a non standard specific format using well selected
indicators and not its traditional VPA. This SCRS report should also show the serious
conservation risks presently faced by bluefin in the Atlantic. This paper also reaches conclusion
that a precautionary approach should be developed by SCRS in order to make firm
management recommendations that are need to conserve bluefin tuna.

19/513: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ayearclasscurveanalysistoestimatemortalityofatlanticbluefintunacaughtbythenorwegianfisheryfromto> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : A year-class curve analysis to estimate mortality of Atlantic bluefin tuna caught by the Norwegian fishery from 1956 to 1979
At the ICCAT symposium on bluefin tuna that held in Santander in April 2008, Tangen et al.(2009) presented a first quantification of the fishing effort deployed by the Norwegian fishery targeting bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea. Using a year-class curve analysis on the Norwegian CPUE, this document presents the first estimates of mortality rates of Atlantic bluefin tuna that migrated north from the mid-1950s to the late 1970s. The results indicate that bluefin tuna would have experienced a total mortality rate (Z) of 0.2 to 0.4 yr-1 (i.e. F at around 0.3 yr-1) during the late 1950s, 0.2 yr-1 during the 1960s and 0.1 yr-1 afterwards (assuming M=0.1 yr-1). These results appear to be rather robust and consistent with the VPA estimates from the 1970s and early 1980s, albeit slightly higher. The fishing mortality rates experienced by bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea during the period 1956-1979 were thus significant (so that local overfishing may have occurred, especially during the 1950s), but lower than F estimated by year-class curve analysis in recent years (i.e. 1992-2004). This comparison between two distant periods of time during which BFT was significantly (highly) exploited tend to confirm, with new pieces of information, the pessimistic conclusions of the 2006 stock assessment.

20/514: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acomparisonofbigeyethunnusobesusstocksandfisheriesintheatlanticindianandpacificoceans> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : A comparison of bigeye (Thunnus obesus) stocks and fisheries in the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans
This paper presents a comparison of fisheries exploiting bigeye tuna. First, a comparison of the
bigeye catch trends by ocean is done. It shows in all areas a fast and quite synchronous
increase of bigeye catches since the early 1980s, followed by a stable or slowly declining catch
trend. Worldwide catches are due to a combination of low value bigeye taken by purse seiners
(mainly small sizes under FADs and of valuable large bigeye targeted by longliners for the
sashimi market. Sizes taken by the various gears in the three oceans are compared. Historical
changes of fishing zones are analysed. The relationship between catches of longliners and sea
surface temperatures is reviewed in each ocean. The main biological characteristics of bigeye
tuna such as growth, sex ratio-at-size and natural mortality, estimated in the various oceans
are compared. Bigeye stock status and the recent changes in the stock assessment diagnosis
done by the different tuna agencies, following the recent increases of catches, are examined
and discussed. Present limitations and uncertainties on the real stock status of bigeye
worldwide are discussed. It is concluded that despite more active research developed
worldwide during recent years on bigeye tunas, the assessment and prospects for management
of these heavily exploited stocks remain widely uncertain and an increasing source of concern.

21/515: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evaluationoftheperformanceandrobustnessofvpabasedstockassessmentandmsybasedmanagementstrategytoprocesserrortheatlanticbluefintunacasestudy> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Evaluation of the performance and robustness of VPA-based stock assessment and MSY-based management strategy to process error : The Atlantic bluefin tuna case study
An integrative simulation framework was built to evaluate the consequences of variability attributable to changes in carrying capacity or the stock's migration pattern of Atlantic bluefin tuna on the ICCAT stock assessment and management procedures. We also evaluated the performances of stock assessment methods with respect to their ability to provide good estimates of MSY, FMSY and BMSY and tested the robustness of the current ICCAT management strategy to uncertainty about the true dynamics and historical exploitation levels. The results clearly indicate that the VPA performances were seriously impaired if the long-term variations in catches are due to changes in migration/availability. There is further considerable confounding between the underlying dynamics and increasing effort that makes it difficult to draw any inference about the actual dynamics based on commercial catch data. Reference points based on F (e.g., F0.1) were less biased and more precise than those based on yield and/or SSB and were also more robust to uncertainty about the true dynamics than absolute values of F and SSB. However, F0.1 cannot indicate past and current levels of exploitation relative to FMSY when there is uncertainty about the dynamics. Therefore, while reference points such as F0.1 may be good proxies for FMSY, the MSY concept may be difficult to make operational. A size limit strategy generates greater yields than the more sophisticated F0.1, but lower SSB. However, the performances of both strategies were strongly dependent on the period over which they are implemented relative to the intrinsic cycle of the population. We finally stressed that the performances and robustness of management strategies also depend on concrete objectives, such as fleet composition, gear selectivity and economic constraints.

22/516: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialconsiderationsforthedakhlastockofoctopusvulgarisindicatorspatternsandfisheriesinteractions> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Spatial considerations for the Dakhla stock of Octopus vulgaris: indicators, patterns and fisheries interactions
The common octopus (Octopus vulgaris) is the target species of the cephalopod fishery that exploits two stocks, Dakhla and Cap Blanc, off southern Morocco (26 degrees N 21 degrees N), an area commonly referred to as the Saharan Bank. Octopus vulgaris is also one of the most abundant demersal species in this highly productive area, and plays a key role in the upwelling ecosystem. Spatial patterns of the main phases of the octopus vulgaris life cycle of the Dakhla stock are described, using trawl surveys carried out twice a year from 1998 to 2003. Using geostatistics and spatial indicators, mature females and juveniles are analysed and mapped to characterize the main features of the spawning and recruitment phases. There are clear distinctions between the spatial patterns of the spawning and recruitment phases: juveniles are more coastal, less spatially dispersed, more anisotropically distributed, and more patchy. Our results suggest that the spatial pattern of the Octopus vulgaris Dakhla stock is different from that of the same species in other ecosystems such as the Mediterranean. GIS reveals that the spawning-stock biomass is globally more accessible to the industrial fleet than to the artisanal one, a finding contrary to contemporary thinking and with important resource management implications.

23/517: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fasstafullyagesizeandspacetimestructuredstatisticalmodelfortheassessmentoftunapopulations> : SCORE = 1.144416
Doc : FASST: a fully age-size and space-time structured statistical model for the assessment of tuna populations
This paper describes the model FASST. FASST is a fully structured age, size, space and time
stock assessment model. It is expressed as a deterministic system of partial differential
equations continuous in age, size and time. Space is represented using large discrete zones
interconnected by exchange rates. All the parameterizations used to represent recruitment,
growth, mortality and movements are chosen to be size-dependent and age independent.
Consequently, for simplicity purposes, the age dimension can be simplified. The model is
integrated numerically to simulate the stock dynamics. A complex process -and observationerror
framework is used to estimate the model parameters, and hence the past stock status, in
a Bayesian context. The model uses simultaneously most fishery data currently available for
tuna stock assessment such as catch by fleet in number and weight, length-frequency samples,
otolith analysis, tag-recapture data. It provides a new way to integrate that information into a
consistent stock assessment framework.

24/518: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

25/519: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anattempttoevaluatetherecentmanagementregulationsoftheeastatlanticandmediterraneanbluefintunastockthroughasimplesimulationmodel> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : An attempt to evaluate the recent management regulations of the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock through a simple simulation model
This manuscript proposes a simple simulation model to investigate the implications to the resources of the
recent management regulations adopted for the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock. If
perfectly implemented, the new regulations on minimum size and closed fishing areas mostly lead to a
change in the selectivity pattern which moves towards older fish, so decreasing growth-overfishing. The
potential sustainable yields therefore considerably increase (almost double in comparison to those that
would be obtained without the new regulations) while the SSB can rapidly reach 20% of the virgin SSB. An
error of 20% in the implementation of these new regulations affects their efficiencies and does not seem to
allow the rebuilding of the SSB at a safe level. A significant increase in fishing mortality on older fish (ages
5+), due to the partial redeployment of the fisheries, affect even more strongly the rebuilding of the SSB. In
conclusion, the new regulations may appear sufficient to rebuild the SSB to a level > 20% of the virgin SSB,
if (and only if) they are perfectly implemented and don't generate any increase in the fishing effort on older
fish. In other words, control over all the fisheries that target BFT in the East Atlantic and the Mediterranean
is probably the key of the edifice.

26/520: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleexploitationofamajortunaconcentrationintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Mesoscale exploitation of a major tuna concentration in the Indian Ocean
The paper analyzes the daily catch, fishing effort and fish size data of the purse seine fleet fishing in the
western Indian Ocean in February 2005, when a major concentration of tuna occurred and was heavily exploited by
this surface fishery. This tuna concentration event occurred over a period of just 12 days, in an area of about 3500
square nautical miles located to the west of the Seychelles. This small stratum produced a total catch of 22 000 t,
corresponding to 6.5% of the total fishing mortality of all adult yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) in the entire Indian
Ocean in 2005. Sets were made mainly on free schools and the catch mainly composed of large yellowfin tuna. The
average CPUE and the average catch per set were very large, 65 t and 85 t per fishing day, respectively. This “event” took
place in a precise area where a high concentration of chlorophyll had been localized 18 days before. The subsequent
concentration of tuna schools probably arose due to the high densities of their prey feeding on this large phytoplankton
biomass. This phytoplankton bloom was observed at the edge of an anticyclonic eddy, but its origin and its high density
cannot be fully explained by available environmental data. The adult yellowfin were probably at a reproductive stage
and actively feeding on the local food chain generated by the phytoplankton bloom. Such an event is extreme, but
typical of tuna purse seine fisheries where fleets often search for such tuna patches. These events play an important role
in tuna fisheries due to the increase in fishing effort and fishing efficiency of purses seiners, both of which increase their
impact on the resource. The fine scale study of such events and their improved integration into tuna stock assessments
is recommended.

27/521: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bluefinfishingbysportfishermenoffthetrebeurdenbaynorthernbrittanyduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Bluefin fishing by sport fishermen off the Trebeurden Bay, Northern Brittany, during the 1946 - 1953 period
This paper describes and analyses the short history of the giant bluefin seasonal sport fishery that took place in the Trebeurden Bay, Brittany, France, after World War 2. This fishery was clearly linked with a now vanished sardine local resource and artisanal fishery, and it was targeting giant bluefin that were probably migrating back from the North Sea and Norway. The history of these sardine and tuna fisheries is discussed in relation with the potential tuna migrations. The end of the bluefin fishery in 1953 was probably related to the local extinction of the sardine stock. This event confirms the great interest to analyse data from bluefin sport fisheries, and the paper recommends doing more data mining targeting the recovery of these historical sport fishery data.

28/522: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/scaleinvariantmovementsoffishermenthesameforagingstrategyasnaturalpredators> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Scale invariant movements of fishermen: the same foraging strategy as natural predators
We analyzed the movement of fishing vessels during fishing trips in order to understand how fishermen behave in space while searching for fish. For that purpose we used hourly geo-referenced positions of vessels, provided by a satellite vessel monitoring system, for the entire industrial fleet (809 vessels) of the world's largest single species fishery (Peruvian anchovy, Engraulis ringens) from December 1999 to March 2003. Observed trajectories of fishing vessels are well modeled by Lévy random walks, suggesting that fishermen use a stochastic search strategy which conforms to the same search statistics as non-human predators. We show that human skills (technology, communication, or others) do not result in the fishermen's spatial behavior being fundamentally different from that of animal predators. With respect to probability of prey encounter, our results suggest that fishermen, on average, evolved an optimal movement pattern (μ = 2.00) among the family of Lévy random walks. This Lagrangian approach opens several perspectives in terms of operational management of the pelagic fish stock.

29/523: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/reproductivedynamicsofswordfishxiphiasgladiusinthesouthwesternindianoceanreunionislandpartfecundityandspawningpattern> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean (Reunion Island). Part 2: fecundity and spawning pattern
Batch fecundity and relative fecundity of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean were estimated from seven gravid swordfish females (size range 127-225 cm lower jaw-to-fork length, LJFL) with unovulated, hydrated oocytes collected onboard Reunion-based (France) longline swordfish fishing vessels between December 1999 to January 2001. To investigate the spawning pattern of swordfish, we used data collected through a combination of two at sea sampling regimes. A total of 17 007 geo-located size data of swordfish were recorded during 8 years (1993-2001) and a total of 1727 (size range 75-289 cm, LJFL) swordfish gonads (1107 females and 620 males) were sampled from May 1998 to January 2001. The estimated batch fecundity ranged from 995 000 hydrated oocytes for the smallest ripe female to 4.3 millions for the largest female sampled measuring respectively 127 to 225 cm in curved length (LJFL). The relative fecundity ranged from 25 to 72 hydrated oocytes per gram of body weight. We found that batch fecundity was positively correlated with fish length and that the older/larger females have earlier and longer spawning seasons than younger/smaller females. These findings suggested that older/larger females which are seasonally migrating in this spawning ground seem to play a major role in reproductive success of the species in producing significantly more offspring than younger females during an extended spawning season. Examination of the length-frequency date from the fishery indicated that the young fish are resident around Reunion and around the seamounts off Reunion Island. Our results highlight the important role of the older/larger females in the reproductive capacity of southwestern Indian Ocean stock. We discuss the potential implications of fishing the older/larger females for this stock in terms of reproduction and recruitment..

30/524: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofthegrowthparametersoftheskipjacktunakatsuwonuspelamisamongareasintheeasternatlanticanalysisfromtaggingdatawithinametaanalysisapproach> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Variability of the growth parameters of the skipjack tuna (/Katsuwonus pelamis/) among areas in the eastern Atlantic: Analysis from tagging data within a meta-analysis approach
In order to assess the latitudinal variability in growth of the eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), conventional tagging data collected by the International Commission of the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) since the 1960s are reanalyzed using a modified version of the von Bertalanffy-Fabens growth model. An analysis of the latitudinal patterns of recaptures showed that the lowest mixing rate between northern and southern regions was evidenced at 10◦ N Latitude. Since it is theoretically admitted that growth parameters L∞ and K are negatively correlated, we substituted L∞ into the growth equation model by a simple bioenergetic function of K fitted from existing studies on skipjack growth parameters. The likelihood for the meta-analysis of growth is combined with the likelihoods from the two regional tagging data with the aim of estimating simultaneously K in both areas and to transfer adequately uncertainties associated with the different data sets. From this study, it was showed that fish inhabiting waters south of 10◦ N latitude can be expected to grow generally larger but at slower rate than in the North (L∞ = 112.34 cm vs. 89.38 cm, and K = 0.14 vs. 0.38, respectively). Our results are consistent with the range of growth estimates obtained in the Atlantic Ocean and in different parts of the World's oceans. In contrast, the estimates of L∞ and K done in the Senegalese region in the 1980s within the framework of the Skipjack Year Program, and traditionally applied by ICCAT, are not supported by the present study. The findings concerning the phenotypic plasticity exhibited by growth of skipjack among latitudinal regions suggest potential differences in fish population productivity and consequently imply that non-conventional stock assessment methods such as catch-at size/growth transition matrix per region could be used to assess the responses of skipjack to exploitation.

31/525: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/applicationoftheproceanmodeltotheeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamistunafishery> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Application of the Procean Model to the eastern atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) tuna fishery
The PROCEAN (PRoduction Catch / Effort ANalysis) model is a multi-fleet biomass dynamic
model developed in a Bayesian framework to conduct stock assessments based on catch and
effort time series data. PROCEAN was applied to the eastern component of the Atlantic
skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) to assess the current status of the stock and provide reference
points to fishery managers. Data included 8 time series of catch and effort data spanning from
1969 to 2006 and mostly standardised based on generalized linear modelling techniques.
Informative priors and constraints for some parameters were used to allow the model to
converge. Model fits were generally good but indicated increasing trends in the residuals for
some fishing fleets. Results suggested that the eastern Atlantic skipjack stock would be
underexploited, with a biomass in 2006 equal to 1.8 times the biomass at the maximum
sustainable yield (MSY) and a fishing mortality in 2006 equal to 30% of the fishing mortality at
MSY (FMSY). A sensitivity analysis performed to account for uncertainty in some input
parameters showed that FMSY estimates were robust to parameter changes while MSY estimates
were sensitive to the prior distribution for MSY. Based on the different model runs, the MSY
was estimated to be comprised between 152,000 and 185,000 t. The use of random walks on
catchability was useful for tracking changes in catchability and associated increasing fishing
power for some baitboat fishing fleets targeting skipjack.

32/526: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/interdecadalvariabilityofanchovetaabundanceandovercapacityofthefisheryinperu> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Interdecadal variability of anchoveta abundance and overcapacity of the fishery in Peru
Paleontological and historical stock abundance estimates indicate that pelagic fish populations inhabiting upwelling ecosystems undergo large interdecadal variations in abundance with amplitudes equal to, if not larger than, the interannual variability. The interdecadal variability is characterized by periods of high and low abundance, termed “pseudo-cycles”, because of their irregular periodicity. Fisheries targeting small pelagic fish suffer from overall overcapitalization, like many other fisheries, but also from an additional overcapitalization problem: a phase displacement between rapid fish population decreases and a slower disinvestment which follows. This lag produces economic hardship.

Here we document the fish:fishery relationship for the Peruvian anchoveta. Anchoveta pseudo-cycles of 20 to >100 years are observed, with the present stock abundance most likely located near upper part of the cycle. Fleet overcapacity expressed as the proportion of unused present capacity is estimated at 72% and processing overcapacity at 89%. A simple bio-economic model demonstrates the risks associated with the pseudo-periodicity in fish stock abundance in conjunction with fishery investment, open access, and overcapacity: a timing bomb for the fishing sector. The lag between disinvestment and decrease in fish abundance is quantified. A reduction of the fishing and processing capacity and measures to decrease the investment lag are recommended to limit the social, economical and political tensions that will result from the expected decrease in stock abundance. Finally, some management options to reduce these risks are discussed.

33/527: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thedevelopmentofanoperationalmodelandsimulationprocedurefortestinguncertaintiesintheatlanticbigeyethunnusobesusstockassessment> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : The development of an operational model and simulation procedure for testing uncertainties in the Atlantic Bigeye (Thunnus obesus) stock assessment
Atlantic bigeye is a highly migratory species widely distributed through the whole Atlantic.
Recent assessments conducted by the ICCAT SCRS are highly uncertain due to the large
uncertainties in biological parameters, such as M, as well as in fishery statistics (e.g., IUU
fleets, juvenile catch) or abundance indexes. Similar uncertainties can be found in the Indian or
Pacific stocks. The development of an operational model has been recommended by different
regional fishery organizations as a good approach to investigate the sensitivity of the
assessment results to the uncertainties in the different inputs. This document presents an
operational model for the Atlantic bigeye as part of a simulation framework that will allow the
performance of management strategies based on current and improved biological knowledge
and management procedures to be evaluated.

34/528: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofyellowfinthunnusalbacarestunastocksfisheriesandstockstatusworldwide> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : An overview of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) tuna stocks, fisheries and stock status worldwide
This paper makes a comparison of yellowfin
stocks worldwide, taking into account the biology of the
species as estimated in each ocean and the changes and
trends in the yellowfin fisheries observed in each ocean. This
paper presents and discusses a wide range of data and
figures comparing yellowfin stocks and fisheries in the four
« oceans », namely the Atlantic, Indian, Eastern and Western
Pacific. It shows an overview of the changes observed in each
ocean for the main yellowfin fisheries, longliners and purse
seiners: sizes of area fished, CPUE, changes in size
distribution and average weights, etc. The major biological
parameters estimated in each ocean by scientists, such as
natural mortality at age, spawning, sex ratio and growth are
presented and discussed. The methods used to assess
yellowfin stocks and the methodological uncertainties in the
yellowfin stock assessment are compared and discussed. The
conclusion is that it remains difficult to fully understand if the
increased catches of yellowfin observed world wide in most
oceans should be explained (1) by the effects of increasing
fishing zones, (2) by increased fishing effort and/or increased
fishing efficiency (3) and/or by increased biological productivity
of oceans or by a combination of these parameters. The
serious uncertainty in the understanding of the real
relationship between the longline and purse seine fisheries are
also discussed.

35/529: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/effectsofthegeardeploymentstrategyandcurrentshearonpelagiclonglineshoaling> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : Effects of the gear deployment strategy and current shear on pelagic longline shoaling
Historical longline catch per unit effort (CPUE) constitutes the major time series used in tuna stock assessment to followthe trend in abundance since the beginning of the large-scale tuna fisheries. The efficiency and species composition of a longline fishing operations essentially depends on the overlap in the vertical and spatial distribution between hooks and species habitat. Longline catchability depends on the vertical distribution of hooks and the aim of our paper was to analyse principal factors affecting the deviation of observed longline hook depths from predicted values. Since observed hook depth is usually shallower than predicted, this deviation is called longline shoaling.We evaluate the accuracy of hook depth distribution estimated from a theoretical catenary model commonly used in longline CPUE standardizations. Temperature-depth recorders (TDRs) were deployed on baskets of a monitored longline. Mainline shapes and maximum fishing depths were similar to gear configurations commonly used to target both yellowfin and bigeye tuna by commercial longliners in the central part of the South Pacific Ocean. Our working hypothesis assumes that the maximum fishing depth reached by the mainline depends on the gear configuration (sag ratio, mainline length per basket), the fishing tactics (bearing of the setting) and environmental variables characterizing water mass dynamics (wind stress, current velocity and shear). Based on generalized additive models (GAMs) simple transformations are proposed to account for the non-linearity between the shoaling and explanatory variables. Then, generalized linear models (GLMs) were fit to model the effects of explanatory variables on the longline shoaling. Results indicated that the shoaling (absolute aswell as relative) was significantly influenced by (1) the shape of the mainline (i.e., the tangential angle), which is the strongest predictor, and (2) the current shear and the direction of setting. Geometric forcing (i.e. transverse versus in-line) between the environment and the longline set is shown for the first time from in situ experimental fishing data. Results suggest that a catenary model that does not take these factors into consideration provides a biased estimate of the vertical distribution of hooks and must be used with caution in CPUEs standardization methods. Since catchability varies in time and space we discuss how suitable data could be routinely collected onboard commercial fishing vessels in order to estimate longline catchability for stock assessments.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved..

36/530: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/combiningfishingclosurewithminimumsizeofcapturetoimproveoctopusproductioninsenegalesewatersanevaluationusinganalyticalmodelling> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Combining fishing closure with minimum size of capture to improve Octopus production in Senegalese waters: an evaluation using analytical modelling,
The dynamics of the Octopus vulgaris (Cuvier, 1797) population in Senegalese waters is
modelled to evaluate the potential impact of combining temporal fishing closure and minimum size of
capture on the production of this stock. The study is based on an analytical approach (cohort analysis
and simulation of captures on a monthly basis) adapted to the biological characteristics of O. vulgaris,
a short lifespan species. Several combinations of the two policies (minimum size and fishing closure)
are tested to complement the results of previous studies that evaluated each of the two strategies
separately, and in addition, to account for the fact that a positive synergistic effect can be expected.
The model covers the exploitation period from 1996 to 1999. As in previous simulations (of separate
effects), the present results focus on the instability of the responses (positive or negative, significant
or not, depending on the situation that prevailed each year) of the octopus stock to such policies. As
a consequence it is difficult to identify the ideal combination of closure and size limits that would
ensure a substantial improvement in production every year. Nevertheless, a 350g or 500g minimum size
policy seems to be profitable when combined with a two-month fishing closure in July–August. The
final discussion focuses on the fact that, in addition to its regional range, the present study presents
also a broader interest because the methodology proposed here aims to be applicable to other
cephalopods and short lived species fisheries.

37/531: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/interpretingcatchperuniteffortdatatoassesthestatusofindividualstocksandcommunities> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Interpreting catch per unit effort data to asses the status of individual stocks and communities
Despite being one of the most common pieces of information used in assessing the status of
fish stocks, relative abundance indices based on catch per unit effort (cpue) data are notoriously
problematic. Raw cpue is seldom proportional to abundance over a whole exploitation
history and an entire geographic range, because numerous factors affect catch rates.
One of the most commonly applied fisheries analyses is standardization of cpue data to remove
the effect of factors that bias cpue as an index of abundance. Even if cpue is standardized
appropriately, the resulting index of relative abundance, in isolation, provides limited
information for management advice or about the effect of fishing. In addition, cpue data
generally cannot provide information needed to assess and manage communities or ecosystems.
We discuss some of the problems associated with the use of cpue data and some
methods to assess and provide management advice about fish populations that can help
overcome these problems, including integrated stock assessment models, management strategy
evaluation, and adaptive management. We also discuss the inappropriateness of using
cpue data to evaluate the status of communities. We use tuna stocks in the Pacific Ocean as
examples.

38/532: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/phytoplanktondistributionintheagulhassystemfromacoupledphysicalbiologicalmodel> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Phytoplankton distribution in the Agulhas system from a coupled physical-biological model
The greater Agulhas Current system has several components with high mesoscale turbulence. The phytoplankton distribution in the southwest Indian Ocean reflects this activity. We have used a regional eddy-permitting, coupled physical-biological model to study the physical-biological interactions and to address the main processes responsible for phytoplankton distribution in three different biogeochemical provinces: the southwest Subtropical Indian Gyre (SWSIG), the subtropical convergence zone (SCZ) and the subantarctic waters (SAW) south of South Africa. The biological model with four compartments (Nitrate-Phytoplankton-Zooplankton-Detritus) adequately reproduces the observed field of chlorophyll a. The phase of the strong modelled seasonality in the SWSIG is opposite to that of the SCZ that forms the southern boundary of the subtropical gyre. Phytoplankton concentrations are governed by the source-minus-sink terms, which are one order of magnitude greater than the dynamical diffusion and advection terms. North of 35°S, in the SWSIG, phytoplankton growth is limited by nutrients supply throughout the year. However, deeper stratification, enhanced cross-frontal transport and higher detritus remineralization explain the simulated higher concentrations of phytoplankton found in winter in the SWSIG. The region between 35° and 40S constitutes a transition zone between the SCZ and the oligotrophic subtropical province. Horizontal advection is the main process bringing nutrients for phytoplankton growth. The front at 34 °S represents a dynamical barrier to an extension further to the north of this advection of nutrients. Within the SCZ, primary production is high during spring and summer. This high productivity depletes the nutrient standing stock built up during winter time. In winter, nutrients supply in the convergence zone is indeed large, but the deep mixing removes phytoplankton from the euphotic zone and inhibits photosynthesis, yielding lower surface chlorophyll a concentrations. Waters south of the Subantarctic Front have a summer biomass close to that of frontal waters and higher than for subtropical waters. However, these simulated concentrations are slightly higher than the observed ones suggesting that limitation by iron and/or silica may play a role.

39/533: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/diagnosticdeletatdustockdepoulpeoctopusvulgarismauritaniensyntheseetnouvellesevaluationsparlapprocheglobale> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Diagnostic de l'état du stock de poulpe (Octopus vulgaris) mauritanien : Synthèse et nouvelles évaluations par l'approche globale.




561) Recherche du mot : Chlorophyll A (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/chlorophyllA)


562) Recherche du mot : Symplectoteuthis oualaniensis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sthenoteuthis_oualaniensis)


563) Recherche du mot : Fishery science (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/halieutique)
1/534: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climatevariabilityfishandfisheries> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Climate variability, fish and fisheries
Fish population variability and fisheries activities are closely linked to weather and climate dynamics. While weather at sea directly affects fishing, environmental variability determines the distribution, migration, and abundance of fish. Fishery science grew up during the last century by integrating knowledge from oceanography, fish biology, marine ecology and fish population dynamics, largely focused on the great northern hemisphere fisheries. During this period, understanding and explaining interannual fish recruitment variability became a major focus for fisheries oceanographers. Yet, the close link between climate and fisheries is best illustrated by the effect of 'unexpected' events – i.e. non-seasonal, and sometimes catastrophic – on fish exploitation, such as those associated with the El Niño/ Southern Oscillation (ENSO). The observation that fish populations fluctuate at decadal time scales and show patterns of synchrony while being geographically separated drew attention to oceanographic processes driven by low frequency signals, as reflected by indices tracking large scale climate patterns such as the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) and the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO). This low frequency variability was first observed in catch fluctuations of small pelagic fish (anchovies, sardines), but similar effects soon emerged for larger fish such as salmons, various groundfish species, and some tuna species. Today, the availability of long time series of observations combined with major scientific advances in sampling and modelling the oceans ecosystems allows fisheries science to investigate processes generating variability in abundance, distribution and dynamics of fish species at daily, decadal and even centennial scales. These studies are central to the research programme of GLOBEC (Global Ocean Ecosystems Dynamics). In this review, we present examples of relationships between climate variability and fisheries at these different time-scales for species covering various marine ecosystems ranging from equatorial to sub-arctic regions. We describe some of the known mechanisms linking climate variability and exploited fish populations, as well as some leading hypotheses, and their implications for their management and for the modelling of their dynamics. We conclude with recommendations for collaborative work between climatologists,
oceanographers and fisheries scientists to resolve some of the outstanding problems in the development of sustainable fisheries.



564) Recherche du mot : Blacktip shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_limbatus)


565) Recherche du mot : Oplophorus spinicauda (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/oplophorus_spinicauda)


566) Recherche du mot : Gempylus serpens (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/gempylus_serpens)


567) Recherche du mot : Bullet tuna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_rochei)


568) Recherche du mot : vallée axiale (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/median_valley)


569) Recherche du mot : Walvisteuthis dans worms (341471) ?!! mais pas l'espece  (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/walvitethis_rancureli)


570) Recherche du mot : Hyperoglyphe antarctica (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/hyperoglyphe_antarctica)


571) Recherche du mot : Walvisteuthis dans worms ?!! (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/walvitethis_rancureli)


572) Recherche du mot : Fishing agregating device (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/FAD)


573) Recherche du mot : Common dolphinfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/coryphaena_hippurus)
1/535: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.

2/536: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mercurycontentincommercialpelagicfishanditsriskassessmentinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.4183372
Doc : Mercury content in commercial pelagic fish and its risk assessment in the Western Indian Ocean
As top predators of pelagic food webs, large fish naturally bioaccumulate mercury (Hg). Determining Hg burdens in commercialized fish is essential considering the concern about effects of contaminants on human health and the legal thresholds that are therefore set for local consumption and/or exportation. Total Hg levels were measured in the muscular tissue of 183 fish of five commercially important species from the tropical zone of the Western Indian Ocean. All individuals were measured and sexed in order to study the impregnation of Hg with size and sex within each species. Values of Hg found in this part of the Indian Ocean were comparable to Hg in muscular tissue of the same species studied in other areas. The highest Hg levels were noted in Swordfish (Xiphias gladius) caught in waters surrounding Reunion Island (3.97 ± 2.67 μg.g−1 dry weight). Following the Swordfish, in decreasing order of Hg content, were the Yellowfin Tuna (Thunnus albacares) and the Skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), then the Common Dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) and the Wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri ). In the North of the Mozambique Channel, Swordfish had higher Hg levels than Yellowfin Tunas, and Dolphinfish exhibited intermediate Hg levels. The size of a fish was a determinating factor of its Hg burden, as was the species. Differences in size-normalized Hg levels were observed between the two study zones for Swordfish and Common Dolphinfish. Sex, in contrast, did not influence Hg levels suggesting that females and males have similar feeding habits. The muscular Hg levels presented here suggest that consumers of fish originating from theWestern Indian Ocean should limit themselves to one Swordfish based meal per week, or one fish meal a day if they choose to eat tuna or Common Dolphinfish.

3/537: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.



574) Recherche du mot : Animal marin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/marine_animal)


575) Recherche du mot : Escolar de canal (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/gempylus_serpens)


576) Recherche du mot : Diaphus effulgens (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diaphus_effulgens)


577) Recherche du mot : MAYOTTE (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_MYT)
1/538: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragingofthegreenseaturtlecheloniamydasonseagrassbedsatmayotteislandindianoceandeterminedbyacoustictransmitters> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Foraging of the green sea turtle Chelonia mydas on seagrass beds at MayotteIsland (Indian Ocean), determined by acoustic transmitters
We studied the foraging rhythms of green sea turtles Chelonia mydas on the seagrass
beds of N'Gouja Bay, Mayotte Island (Comoros Archipelago) with acoustic transmitters and moored
listening stations. We monitored 8 tagged turtles (4 probable males, 3 probable females and 1 immature),
from 70 to 109 cm curved carapace length (CCL), for durations ranging from 5 to 92 d. The
turtles exhibited a regular diel pattern: they foraged mainly during the day (on average 87% of seagrass
detections were between 06:00 and 18:00 h) and rested on the inner reef slope during the night.
Night time feeding activities were observed on the seagrass bed when the night light was high. The
presence of turtles on the seagrass bed at night was significantly correlated with a night light index
(r = 0.54, p = 0.002), which included both moon light and cloudiness indices. Behaviour of the only
immature individual observed was similar to adult turtles, although it rested more frequently around
noon. All turtles displayed a high fidelity to 1 foraging site within the seagrass bed. Acoustic transmitters
and permanent listening stations are an appropriate technique for long-term behavioural
studies of turtles, with no human interaction with turtles during tracking, and represent a suitable
technique to assess the possible effects of environmental changes or human activities upon green
turtle behaviour.



578) Recherche du mot : chlorophylle A (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/chlorophyllA)


579) Recherche du mot : Alakrana (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alakrana)


580) Recherche du mot : espèce ciblée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/hasTarget)


581) Recherche du mot : Makaire bleu Indo-Pacifique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_mazara)


582) Recherche du mot : Ecotem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ecotem)


583) Recherche du mot : Barracudas nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyraena_spp)


584) Recherche du mot : rorqual commun (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/balaenoptera_physalus)


585) Recherche du mot : fossé (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/moat)


586) Recherche du mot : Silver spinyfin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diretmus_argenteus)


587) Recherche du mot : Aguja picuda (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_pfluegeri)


588) Recherche du mot : seamount (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/seamount)


589) Recherche du mot : Requiem sharks nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_falciformis)


590) Recherche du mot : Tetrapturus spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_spp)


591) Recherche du mot : Thyrsites atun (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thyrsites_atun)


592) Recherche du mot : VIGO (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_ESP_VGO)


593) Recherche du mot : port (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/harbour)
1/539: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

2/540: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/speciescompositionoftunacatchestakenbypurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Species composition of tuna catches taken by purse seiners
This paper makes a presentation of the multi-species
size sampling that have been conducted in the Indian and
Atlantic oceans since the early eighties allowing to
estimate the average species and size composition of tuna
landings by pole and line vessels and purse seiners. The
paper further discusses the structural biases that are
expected when sampling the complex mixture of sizes and
species that are observed on FAD schools, when done by
observers. It advocates the necessity to sample these
catches using large scale port multispecies sampling
schemes. The data processing of these multi species
samples is also discussed, based the methods developed by
EU scientists in the Atlantic and Indian oceans. The paper
recommends promoting a unified sampling scheme of
purse seine landings in the WCP and a unified data
processing of these size and species samples. The final
recommendation of the paper would to process all the
WCP historical data of species composition using this new
method, and to promote as soon as possible in the WCP
such optimized sampling scheme, this sampling being
fully coordinated between IATTC and WCPFC at the
scale of the entire Pacific Ocean.



594) Recherche du mot : Nuage (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/cloud)


595) Recherche du mot : Pristipomoides zonatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pristipomoides_zonatus)


596) Recherche du mot : pilotfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/naucrates_ductor)


597) Recherche du mot : Lutjanus argentimaculatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lutjanus_argentimaculatus)


598) Recherche du mot : tagging gear (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/tagging_gear)


599) Recherche du mot : Malabar trevally (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carangoides_malabaricus)


600) Recherche du mot : crustacea (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/crustacea)


601) Recherche du mot : Kawakawa (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/euthynnus_affinis)


602) Recherche du mot : conserverie (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/cannery)


603) Recherche du mot : Guéotec (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/gueotec)


604) Recherche du mot : Diaphus perspicillatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diaphus_perspicillatus)


605) Recherche du mot : valley (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/valley)


606) Recherche du mot : Fish larvae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/fish_larvae)
1/541: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingtheprimaryandsecondaryproductionsofthesouthernbenguelaupwellingsystemacomparativestudythroughtwobiogeochemicalmodelsglobalbiogeochem> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Modeling the primary and secondary productions of the southern Benguela upwelling system: A comparative study through two biogeochemical models, Global Biogeochem
A three-dimensional primitive equation model, the Regional Ocean Modeling Systems (ROMS), coupled to two biogeochemical configurations (NPZD and N2P2Z2D2) was used to study the dynamics of the first trophic levels of the pelagic food web in the southern Benguela upwelling system. The domain extends from the Agulhas Bank bordered by the Agulhas Current to 27°S on the west coast of South Africa. The circulation is driven by monthly climatologies of atmospheric forcing fields. The NPZD ecosystem model consists of four state variables: nutrient (nitrate), phytoplankton, zooplankton and detritus. In the N2P2Z2D2 model, ammonium has been added and the three other variables have been divided into small and large organisms or detritus. Both models are able to reproduce the spatio-temporal phytoplankton distribution. Along the west coast, chlorophyll concentrations maxima are associated to surface waters. Westward dominating winds generate the lowest chlorophyll concentrations encountered in winter. The small phytoplankton organisms simulated by the N2P2Z2D2 model are responsible for a weaker chlorophyll inshore/offshore gradient, in closer agreement with observations. Transitions from a regime dominated by new production (high f ratio) to one dominated by regenerated production (low f ratio) happen to be abrupt, underlying the constant competition between small and large organisms with regard to upwelling induced nutrient inputs. On the Agulhas Bank, the summer enrichment is associated with subsurface maxima, while in winter, mixing by storms results in a homogeneous phytoplankton distribution in the water column. Regenerated production plays an important role in maintaining the total phytoplankton growth. Zooplankton biomass reflects the overall patterns of chlorophyll a concentrations with differences between the west coast and the Agulhas Bank, consistent with data, and its distribution exhibits a clear seasonal contrast. The seasonality of small and large zooplankton in the N2P2Z2D2 model is quite distinct, which allows, from the Agulhas Bank to St. Helena Bay, a food continuum for fish larvae. This was not achieved with the simpler NPZD model, emphasizing the importance of representing the appropriate level of complexity to characterize food availability for higher trophic levels.

2/542: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparativeforagingecologyandecologicalnicheofasuperabundanttropicalseabirdthesootyternsternafuscatainthesouthwestindianocean> : SCORE = 1.4183372
Doc : Comparative foraging ecology and ecological niche of a superabundant tropical seabird: the sooty tern Sterna fuscata in the southwest Indian Ocean
Over 6-million pairs of sooty terns Sterna fuscata breed once a year in the southwest Indian Ocean, mostly on three islands of the Mozambique Channel (Europa, Juan de Nova and Glorieuses) and in the Seychelles region. Seasonal reproduction in either winter or summer is the dominant strategy in the area, but nonseasonal reproduction also occurred in some places like at Glorieuses Archipelago. The feeding ecology of the sooty tern was investigated during the breeding seasons to determine whether terns showed signiWcant diVerences in their trophic ecology between locations. Regurgitations were analyzed to describe the diet of individuals when breeding, and stable isotopes and mercury concentrations were used to temporally integrate over the medium-term of the trophic ecology of both adults and chicks. Overall, the diet was composed of fish, flying squid and fish larvae in different proportions. At Europa and Aride in the Seychelles, where winter reproduction occurs, large epipelagic prey like flying fish or squid dominated the diet. At Juan de Nova, sooty terns reproduce in summer and rely mostly on fish larvae. At Glorieuses (non-seasonal breeding), the diet was intermediate with fish larvae and flying squid being important prey items. The stable-carbon and nitrogen isotope values in blood confirm the differences observed in dietary analysis, and demonstrate different feeding strategies between colonies...δ13 C values of feathers showed spatial segregation between birds from the Mozambique Channel and the Seychelles region. Terns from the Seychelles had also higher δ15 N values. Feather δ13 C values also suggest a significant shift from summer to wintering habitat for birds from Juan de Nova. This study emphasizes the high phenotypic plasticity of the species, which may explain its numerical dominance in all tropical waters of the World's Ocean.

3/543: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/doesverticalmigratorybehaviourretainfishlarvaeonshoreinupwellingecosystemsamodellingstudyofanchovyinthesouthernbenguela> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Does vertical migratory behaviour retain fish larvae onshore in upwelling ecosystems? A modelling study of anchovy in the southern Benguela
A spatially explicit individual-based model (IBM) forced by 3D temperature and current fields simulated by a hydrodynamic model of the southern Benguela upwelling region was used to test two hypotheses concerning the role of diel vertical migration (DVM) by Cape anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus larvae and pre-recruits. These hypotheses were that: (1) DVM enhances alongshore transport of anchovy eggs and larvae from the spawning grounds to the nursery area while avoiding the lethal effect of low water temperatures in the upwelling system, and/or (2) DVM enhances the transport of larvae and pre-recruits from the offshore to the onshore domain of the nursery area, and then counteracts offshore advection by favouring retention. We tracked the trajectories of virtual particles in the model and calculated a pre-recruitment index as a proxy for transport success to the nursery area (onshore and offshore) and found that the indexincreased from 10% to 20% after the incorporation of larval vertical migration into the IBM, with virtual individuals held at depths of around 60 m showing maximal pre-recruitment index values. Hence, DVM does appear to enhance transport to the nursery area (offshore) for early and late larvae. Model outputs showed coarse-scale horizontal distribution patterns of larvae by age/size class that are similar to field observations for early, small larvae but not for large larvae and pre-recruits. Observations show that early/ small larvae are located offshore whereas older/ larger larvae and pre-recruits are found closer to the continental shelf and the inner nursery grounds. This disparity between model results and field observations does not support the hypothesis that DVM is one of the mechanisms involved in the onshore movement of early life-history stages, especially for large larvae.

4/544: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleeddiesinfluencedistributionandaggregationpatternsofmicronektoninthemozambiquechannel> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Mesoscale eddies influence distribution and aggregation patterns of micronekton in the Mozambique Channel
Oceanic mesoscale circulation is a crucial structuring force for the marine environment. Dynamical processes associated with eddies such as eddy-induced upwelling or eddy-eddy interaction drive the transport and distribution of nutrients which support the whole food chain presumably through bottom-up processes. It has been largely documented that eddies can shape the distribution of both low (phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish larvae) and high trophic levels (top fish predators, seabirds or turtles) but the impact of mesoscale features on intermediate trophic levels (micronekton) remains poorly explored. In this work, we analysed the influence of eddies on the distribution of micronekton aggregations in the Mozambique Channel by combining acoustic data and satellite sea topography data. We demonstrated that large aggregations of micronekton occurred mainly in areas of high local horizontal gradient of sea level anomaly, i.e., at the periphery of eddies. We observed that eddies in the region, when running along the coast, advect at their edges coastal rich waters, which support the base of the trophic chain. We propose that eddies can shape the distribution and the aggregation patterns of the forage fauna of marine top predators through bottom-up processes.



607) Recherche du mot : Coureur arc-en-ciel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/elagatis_bipinnulata)


608) Recherche du mot : NOUVELLE ZELANDE (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_NZL)


609) Recherche du mot : Humboldt (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/humboldt_ecosystem)
1/545: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trendsinprimaryproductionseasurfacetemperatureandwindinupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Trends in primary production, sea surface temperature and wind in upwelling systems (1998-2007)
We take advantage of the longest high quality single-sensor global data set of ocean color available today to explore recent trends in the primary productivity of the main eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUEs): California, Canary, Humboldt and Benguela. The chlorophyll-a concentration is used as a proxy for primary production. SST data from AVHRR and wind speed data from QuikSCAT are used in conjunction with this data set to analyse forcing mechanisms explaining the chlorophyll biomass.
Whereas the worldwide primary-production biomass shows on average decreasing trends, as already observed in the stratified part of the worldwide ocean, the productivity of most EBUEs increases during the study period. These contrasting trends are both significant, at least for the mid latitude range of 50°S-50°N, where the data coverage is sufficient for accurate estimation.
Probably due to the large scale atmospheric forcing, trends in sea surface temperature (SST) show non-significant relationships with the trends in biomass within upwelling systems, suggesting that SST anomalies cannot be used as an indicator of change in upwelling intensity in a continuous warming context. On the other hand, upwelling favourable equatorward winds show a significant correlation with the observed trends in biomass, suggesting that the trends in the trade winds are probably linked to an increase in the intensity of the Hadley cell circulation observed during the last several decades.

2/546: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/zooplanktonandforagefishspeciesoffperulargescalebottomupforcingandlocalscaledepletion> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Zooplankton and forage fish species off Peru: large-scale bottom-up forcing and local-scale depletion
The Humboldt Current System, like all upwelling systems, has dramatic quantities of plankton-feeding fish, which suggested that their population dynamics may ‘drive' or ‘control' ecosystem dynamics. With this in mind we analysed the relationship between forage fish populations and their main prey, zooplankton populations. Our study combined a zooplankton sampling program (1961–2005) with simultaneous acoustic observations on fish from 40 pelagic surveys (1983–2005) conducted by the Peruvian Marine Research Institute (IMARPE) and landing statistics for anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) along the Peruvian coast from 1961 to 2005. The multi-year trend of anchoveta population abundance varied consistently with zooplankton biovolume trend, suggesting bottom-up control on anchovy at the population scale (since oceanographic conditions and phytoplankton production support the changes in zooplankton abundance). For a finer-scale analysis (km) we statistically modelled zooplankton biovolume as a function of geographical (latitude and distance from the 200-m isobath), environmental (sea surface temperature), temporal (year, month and time-of-day) and biological (acoustic anchovy and sardine biomass within 5 km of each zooplankton sample) covariates over all survey using both classification and regression trees (CART) and generalized additive models (GAM). CART showed local anchoveta density to have the strongest effect on zooplankton biovolume, with significantly reduced levels of biovolume for higher neighbourhood anchoveta biomass. Additionally, zooplankton biovolume was higher offshore than on the shelf. GAM results corroborated the CART findings, also showing a clear diel effect on zooplankton biovolume, probably due to diel migration or daytime net avoidance. Apparently, the observed multi-year population scale bottom-up control is not inconsistent with local depletion of zooplankton when anchoveta are locally abundant, since the latter effect was observed over a wide range of overall anchoveta abundance.

3/547: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/functionalgroupbiodiversityineasternboundaryupwellingecosystemsquestionsthewaspwaisttrophicstructure> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Functional group biodiversity in Eastern Boundary Upwelling Ecosystems questions the wasp-waist trophic structure
The species diversity of the four major Eastern Boundary Upwelling Ecosystems (EBUEs) is studied and compared with the aim of better understanding their functioning. Functional groups (FGs) of organisms were defined according to their taxonomy, body size and trophic level (TL), and span from plankton to top predators. Four large sub-divisions are defined in each system: two latitudinal sub-divisions (north and south) and two zonal sub-divisions (inshore and offshore), resulting in four sub-ecosystems per EBUE. A semi-quantitative approach is used in which only the dominant species (contributing 90% of overall biomass) are considered. EBUEs are compared in regard to their species composition, dominant species richness and evenness within FGs. The data are interpreted, focusing on latitudinal, zonal and depth gradients of diversity. Trophic flows (inflow and outflow) through the small pelagic fish FG are derived from different Ecopath models. This analysis of the four ecosystems and their sub-divisions does not provide support for the expected wasp-waist food web structure and functioning, with a single or several species of small pelagic fish primarily channelling the energy flow from lower to higher TL. Instead, similar low levels of richness were observed in many FGs of intermediate TL, allowing several energy transfer pathways. The gamma diversity is high due to the geographical distance between EBUEs and the presence or absence of rivers, but not to differences in their latitudinal position. The beta diversity is also high, due to the same factors plus the variation in shelf width and the contrast between inshore and offshore sub-divisions. The differences in richness and evenness among EBUEs are minor and do not explain the higher secondary and tertiary productivity of the Humboldt ecosystem.

4/548: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anchovyengraulisringensandsardinesardinopssagaxspatialdynamicsandaggregationpatternsinthehumboldtcurrentecosystemperufrom> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Anchovy (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) spatial dynamics and aggregation patterns in the Humboldt Current ecosystem, Peru, from 1983-2003
Three indexes of spatial aggregation are developed and used to examine the aggregation pattern of sardine (Sardinops sagax) and anchovy (Engraulis ringens) in the Peruvian Humboldt Current System, determined from 36 acoustic surveys conducted from 1983 through 2003 by the Peruvian Marine Institute (IMARPE). Each index assesses a different aspect of aggregation: the concentration, the percent occupancy of space and the clustering of high-fish abundance. Both time-series correlation and tree-based clustering-regression method, classification and regression trees (CART), were used to relate each of the indexes to environmental variables (season, temperature anomaly and year). Additionally, a measure of onshore-offshore distribution, the average distance from the coast, and abundance variables (the average acoustic backscatter per occupied sampling unit, and the acoustically estimated total abundance of sardine and anchovy from IMARPE) were related to environmental factors by using CART. We show that the 1983-2003 time series can be divided into three different periods: with shifts in 1992 and in 1997-98. Sardine and anchovy showed large differences in both abundance and aggregation among these periods. Although upwelling ecosystems support dramatic and sudden changes in environmental conditions, fish responses are sometimes smoother than usually suggested and there are transition periods with concomitant high biomasses of anchovy and sardine, but with different spatial aggregation patterns. Observed relationships between environmental proxies and aggregation patterns support the habitat-based hypothesis that environmentally mediated alterations in range lead to population changes.

5/549: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anindividualbasedmodelstudyofanchovyearlylifehistoryinthenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystem> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : An individual-based model study of anchovy early life history in the northern Humboldt Current system
We used an individual-based model of anchovy (Engraulis ringens) early life history coupled with hydrodynamic outputs from the regional oceanic modeling system (ROMS) to investigate the factors driving variability in egg and larval survival rates in the northern Humboldt upwelling region off Peru. Individuals were released within a coastal area and followed for a period of 30 days. Those that were still in the coastal area at that time were considered as retained. We investigated the spatial and temporal variability in the release locations of the individuals retained, and compared these to observed egg concentration patterns reconstructed from a 40-year period of monitoring. A first set of simulations using passive particles to represent anchovy eggs and larvae revealed a large sensitivity of the results to the initial vertical distribution of particles. We then conducted two additional sets of simulations that included the effect of egg buoyancy, larval vertical swimming behavior and lethal temperature. We obtained (1) maximal coastal retention close to the surface in winter and in deeper layers in summer, (2) a large influence of egg buoyancy and of larval vertical behavior on coastal retention in all seasons, (3) a partial match between dates and locations of enhanced retention and observed egg concentration patterns and (4) a low effect of lethal temperature on survival except when associated with high egg density. The model suggests that an optimal temporal spawning pattern for maximizing coastal retention would have two maximums, the most significant in austral winter and the second in summer. This pattern agrees roughly with observed spawning seasonality, but with temporal discrepancy of about two months in the peaks of both series. Spatially, we obtained higher retention from 10 S to 20 S, whereas the observed maximum egg concentration was located between 6°S and 14°S. Among the three sets of simulations, the one taking into account larval vertical swimming behavior lead to the best match with the data.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

6/550: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/synchronouspatternoffluctuationinthreeanchovyfisheriesinthehumboldtcurrentsystem> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Synchronous pattern of fluctuation in three anchovy fisheries in the Humboldt Current System
Interdecadal versus interannual time-scale variations of catch data of three anchovy fisheries distributed in the Humboldt Current System (HCS) were analyzed during the period 1960-2002, by using first a loess smoother. The loess residual data were considered as the interannual variation. Interdecadal changes were highly coherent for the three fisheries of anchovy distributed in the HCS, while there were differences in terms of interannual variations. The north-central Peru fishery was similar to the south Peru-northern Chile fishery in terms of the interannual component of fluctuation of these fisheries which was significantly and negatively related with El Niño-Southern Oscillations events occurring during the spring of the previous year. Interdecadal synchronous variations in the three anchovy fisheries suggest a common forcing by long-term environmental factors in the HCS, although other causes cannot be excluded. During the last 40 years, coherent changes in anchovy fisheries were observed, and this synchronous pattern is out of phase with large-amplitude sardine regimes. Long-term climate variability seems to be the main cause for interdecadal fluctuations in anchovy fisheries in the HCS, although available time series are too short to prove this link and exclude the hypothesis of nonenvironmental forcing. Large-amplitude regime shifts may be more important to consider than interannual changes since they can affect simultaneously and more dramatically the three anchovy fisheries distributed in the Humboldt Current System.

7/551: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingforecastingandscenariosincomparableupwellingecosystemscaliforniacanaryandhumboldt> : SCORE = 0.4342753
Doc : Modelling, forecasting and scenarios in comparable upwelling ecosystems: California, Canary and Humboldt
The three eastern boundary ecosystems comparable to the Benguela ecosystem (BCE)
display differences and commonalities. The California (CalCE) and Humboldt Current
(HCE) ecosystems are continuous topographically, whereas the Canary Current
ecosystem (CanCE) is interrupted by the Gulf of Cadiz and the Canaries archipelago.
All have similar regimes of equatorward flow over shelf and slope associated with
upwelling and a subsurface poleward flow over the slope, though in the HCE multiple
flows and counter-flows appear offshore. All systems exhibit year round upwelling in
their centre and seasonal upwelling at their extremes as the trade wind systems that
drive them migrate north and south, though the HCE is strongly skewed toward the
equator. All systems vary on scales from the event or synoptic scale of a few days,
through seasonal, to inter-decadal and long term. Productivity of each system follows
the upwelling cycle, though intra-regional variations in nutrient content and forcing
cause significant variability within regions. The CanCE is relatively unproductive
compared to the CalCE and HCE as a result of differences in large scale circulation
between the Pacific and Atlantic. The latter two systems are dominated by El Niño -
Southern Oscillation (ENSO) variability on a scale of 4-7 years. Physical modeling
with the Princeton Ocean Model and the Regional Oceanic Modeling System has
advanced recently to the stage of reproducing realistic mesoscale features and energy
levels with climatic wind forcing. Operational forecasting by these models with
assimilation of sea surface temperature and other data is successfully implemented in
CalCE. On longer time scales, the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory model is able
to hindcast El Niño variability over the long term up to 2 years in advance. Empirical
ecological models in all three systems have attempted prediction of permissible catch
level (fractional Maximum Sustainable Yield), recruitment, catches or onset of
migration with lack of continued success, partly because discontinuous or inadequate
observations hamper model implementation and assessment. Moreover, empirical
models tuned to particular environments fail when fundamental regime shifts occur.
One of the most successful approaches is that of intensive monitoring of catch and
188 P. Fréon
environmental parameters linked to an informal Operational Management Procedure
(OMP) to inform fisheries management off Peru. This OMP contributed to
preservation of anchovy stock during the 1997-8 El Niño but remains to be formalized
or tested under varying conditions. Prediction on time scales of global warming are
uncertain because physical climate models still disagree on whether upwelling will
intensify or weaken. Possible scenarios on decadal scale based on warming or cooling
of waters in the Eastern Boundary Current systems can be proffered, albeit with little
confidence at present. Future approaches for all systems, including the BCE, will in
the long run likely combine coupled atmospheric/ocean models with biological process
models. Judicious application of purely statistical modeling based on inherent time
series properties will assist, though such techniques are unable to cope with regime
shifts.

8/552: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactsofkelvinwaveforcingintheperuhumboldtcurrentsystemscenariosofspatialreorganizationsfromphysicstofishers> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Impacts of Kelvin wave forcing in the Peru Humboldt Current system: Scenarios of spatial reorganizations from physics to fishers
Because climate change challenges the sustainability of important fish populations and the fisheries they support, we need to understand how large scale climatic forcing affects the functioning of marine ecosystems. In the Humboldt Current system (HCS), a main driver of climatic variability is coastally-trapped Kelvin waves (KWs), themselves originating as oceanic equatorial KWs. Here we (i) describe the spatial reorganizations of living organisms in the Humboldt coastal system as affected by oceanic KWs forcing, (ii) quantify the strength of the interactions between the physical and biological component dynamics of the system, (iii) formulate hypotheses on the processes which drive the redistributions of the organisms, and (iv) build scenarios of space occupation in the HCS under varying KW forcing. To address these questions we explore, through bivariate lagged correlations and multivariate statistics, the relationships between time series of oceanic KW amplitude (TAO mooring data and model-resolved baroclinic modes) and coastal Peruvian oceanographic data (SST, coastal upwelled waters extent), anchoveta spatial distribution (mean distance to the coast, spatial concentration of the biomass, mean depth of the schools), and fishing fleet statistics (trip duration, searching duration, number of fishing sets and catch per trip, features of the foraging trajectory as observed by satellite vessel monitoring system). Data sets span all or part of January 1983 to September 2006. The results show that the effects of oceanic KW forcing are significant in all the components of the coastal ecosystem, from oceanography to the behaviour of the top predators – fishers. This result provides evidence for a bottom-up transfer of the behaviours and spatial stucturing through the ecosystem. We propose that contrasting scenarios develop during the passage of upwelling versus downwelling KWs. From a predictive point of view, we show that KW amplitudes observed in the mid-Pacific can be used to forecast which system state will dominate the HCS over the next 2–6 months. Such predictions should be integrated in the Peruvian adaptive fishery management.

9/553: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/dietofsardinesardinopssagaxinthenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystemandcomparisonwiththedietsofclupeoidsinthisandothereasternboundaryupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Diet of sardine (Sardinops sagax) in the northern Humboldt Current system and comparison with the diets of clupeoids in this and other eastern boundary upwelling systems
Sardines are one of the main small pelagic fish resources in eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUS) where they play an important ecological role both as a predator of plankton and as prey of top predators. Sardine trophodynamics have been relatively well studied in three of the EBUS (the Benguela, California and Canary upwelling systems) but not in the Humboldt Current system. In this paper we describe the diet of sardine Sardinops sagax in the northern Humboldt Current system (NHCS) off Peru, using an analytical method which assesses relative dietary importance in terms of estimated prey carbon content. We assessed sardine diet by examining a total of 555 stomachs collected during six surveys conducted off Peru during the period 1996–1998, and compare our results with the diet of anchoveta Engraulis ringens off Peru and with the diets of sardines from the southern Benguela (also S. sagax) and the northern Canary (Sardina pilchardus) upwelling systems. The diet of sardine off Peru is based primarily on zooplankton, similar to that observed for anchoveta but with several important differences. Firstly, sardine feed on smaller zooplankton than do anchoveta, with sardine diet consisting of smaller copepods and fewer euphausiids than anchoveta diet. Secondly, whilst phytoplankton represents <2% of sardine dietary carbon, this fraction is dominated by dinoflagellates, whereas diatoms are the dominant phytoplankton consumed by anchoveta. Hence, trophic competition between sardine and anchovy in the northern Humboldt Current system is minimized by their partitioning of the zooplankton food resource based on prey size, as has been reported in other systems. Whereas sardine in the NHCS feed on smaller zooplankton than do anchovy in that system, sardine in the NHCS forage on larger prey and obtain a substantial portion of their dietary carbon from euphausiids compared to sardine from the northern Canary and southern Benguela Current systems.

10/554: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/therelationshipofanchovyandsardinetowatermassesintheperuvianhumboldtcurrentsystemfromto> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : The relationship of anchovy and sardine to water masses in the Peruvian Humboldt Current System from 1983 to 2005
The Humboldt Current System (HCS) is dominated by two pelagic species; Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax). Using data from 43 acoustic surveys conducted from 1983 through 2005 by the Peruvian Marine Institute (IMARPE), we examined the distribution of these two species relative to water masses. We tested the hypothesis that anchovy was found more frequently in upwelled cold coastal water (CCW) and mixed waters (MCW) than in other water types and that sardine was more associated with more offshore oceanic surface subtropical water (SSW). Surface temperature, salinity, latitude, season and distance to the coast data were used to define water masses. Results using generalized additive models (GAM), modelling sardine and anchovy presence–absence as a function of year, water body, bottom depth and latitude, showed that anchovy were primarily found in CCW and MCS, while sardine were more ubiquitous relative to water masses with some predilection for SSW. These results were supported by various indexes of anchovy and sardine distribution versus water mass as well as temporal and location variables.

11/555: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/enrichmentconcentrationandretentionprocessesinrelationtoanchovyengraulisringenseggsandlarvaedistributionsinthenorthernhumboldtupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Enrichment, concentration and retention processes in relation to anchovy (Engraulis ringens) eggs and larvae distributions in the northern Humboldt upwelling ecosystem
A Lagrangian model is used to simulate and quantify in the northern Humboldt upwelling ecosystem the processes of enrichment, concentration and retention, identified by Bakun [Bakun, A., 1996. Patterns in the ocean. Ocean processes and marine population (sic). University of California Sea Grant, California, USA, in cooperation with Centro de Investigaciones Biologicas de Noroeste, (sic) California Sur, Mexico, 323 pp.] as being important for the survival and recruitment of early life stages of pelagic fish. The method relies on tracking the positions of particles within water velocity fields generated by a three-dimensional hydrodynamic model. Simple criteria for considering particles as participating to enrichment, concentration or retention are used to derive indices of the three processes. We analyse the spatial distribution of and seasonal variability in these indices. The results are discussed in relation to anchovy (Engraulis ringens) eggs and larvae distributions off Peru, and to a comparable study conducted in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem.

12/556: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystembriefhistorypresentstatusandaviewtowardsthefuture> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : The northern Humboldt Current System: Brief history, present status and a view towards the future
INTRODUCTION 
The tropical ocean off the west coast of South America is notable for several reasons. First, it is unusually cool for an ocean that is so close to the equator with sea surface temperatures at 5 °S off Peru as cool as 16 °C when most other tropical locations are in excess of 25 °C. Upwelling of cool waters brings phytoplankton nutrients to the surface, dramatically increasing biological productivity in this low-latitude region of few storms. Second, as a result of the enhanced productivity, the northern Humboldt Current System (HCS) off Peru produces more fish per unit area than any other region in the world oceans (Fig. 1), representing less than 0.1% of the world ocean surface but presently producing about 10% of the world fish catch. Third, as a result of sinking and decay of surface-derived primary production and poor ventilation, surface oxygenated waters overlie an intense and extremely shallow Oxygen Minimum Zone (OMZ). The OMZ forms a barrier to some animals, concentrating living resources near the surface. At the other end of the spectrum different forms of marine life have adapted to this harsh environment, some utilizing it as a refuge from predation. The OMZ also affects global nutrient budgets, as nitrate instead of oxygen is used by bacteria as a terminal electron acceptor. Fourth, beneath the OMZ, in layered continental shelf sediments the absence of oxygen preserves dead organisms, creating a record of past ecosystem and climate changes. Fifth, through ocean/atmosphere coupling, the northern HCS is intimately linked to equatorial Pacific dynamics and is subject to large interannual to multidecadal fluctuations in climate, ecosystems and its fisheries.

13/557: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anchovyearlylifeinthenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystemanindividualbasedmodelstudy> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Anchovy early life in the northern Humboldt Current system: an individual-based model study
We used an individual-based model of anchovy (Engraulis ringens) early life history coupled with hydrodynamic outputs from the regional oceanic modeling system (ROMS) to investigate the factors driving variability in egg and larval survival rates in the northern Humboldt upwelling region off Peru. Individuals were released within a coastal area and followed for a period of 30 days. Those that were still in the coastal area at that time were considered as retained. We investigated the spatial and temporal variability in the release locations of the individuals retained, and compared these to observed egg concentration patterns reconstructed from a 40-year period of monitoring. A first set of simulations using passive particles to represent anchovy eggs and larvae revealed a large sensitivity of the results to the initial vertical distribution of particles. We then conducted two additional sets of simulations that included the effect of egg buoyancy, larval vertical swimming behavior and lethal temperature. We obtained (1) maximal coastal retention close to the surface in winter and in deeper layers in summer, (2) a large influence of egg buoyancy and of larval vertical behavior on coastal retention in all seasons, (3) a partial match between dates and locations of enhanced retention and observed egg concentration patterns and (4) a low effect of lethal temperature on survival except when associated with high egg density. The model suggests that an optimal temporal spawning pattern for maximizing coastal retention would have two maximums, the most significant in austral winter and the second in summer. This pattern agrees roughly with observed spawning seasonality, but with temporal discrepancy of about two months in the peaks of both series. Spatially, we obtained higher retention from 10 S to 20 S, whereas the observed maximum egg concentration was located between 6°S and 14°S. Among the three sets of simulations, the one taking into account larval vertical swimming behavior lead to the best match with the data.

14/558: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystempartiielucidatingecosystemdynamicsfromtowithafocusontheimpactofenso> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part II: Elucidating ecosystem dynamics from 1995 to 2004 with a focus on the impact of ENSO
The Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem is one of the most productive in the world in terms of fish production. Its location near to the equator permits strong upwelling under relatively low winds, thus creating optimal conditions for the development of plankton communities. These communities ultimately support abundant populations of grazing fish such as the Peruvian anchoveta, Engraulis ringens. The ecosystem is also subject to strong inter-annual environmental variability associated with the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO), which has major effects on nutrient structure, primary production, and higher trophic levels. Here our objective is to model the contributions of several external drivers (i.e. reconstructed phytoplankton changes, fish immigration, and fishing rate) and internal control mechanisms (i.e. predator-prey) to ecosystem dynamics over an ENSO cycle. Steady-state models and timeseries data from the Instituto del Mar del Perú (IMARPE) from 1995 to 2004 provide the base data for simulations conducted with the program Ecopath with Ecosim. In simulations all three external drivers contribute to ecosystem dynamics. Changes in phytoplankton quantity and composition (i.e. contribution of diatoms and dino- and silicoflagellates), as affected by upwelling intensity, were important in dynamics of the El Niño of 1997–98 and the subsequent 3 years. The expansion and immigration of mesopelagic fish populations during El Niño was important for dynamics in following years. Fishing rate changes were the most important of the three external drivers tested, helping to explain observed dynamics throughout the modeled period, and particularly during the post-El Niño period. Internal control settings show a mix of predator–prey control settings; however a ‘‘wasp-waist” control of the ecosystem by small pelagic fish is not supported.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

15/559: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/revisitingperuviananchovyengraulisringenstrophodynamicsprovidesanewvisionofthehumboldtcurrentsystem> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Revisiting Peruvian anchovy (Engraulis ringens) trophodynamics provides a new vision of the Humboldt Current system
The Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) forages on plankton and is a main prey for marine mammals, seabirds, fish, and fishers, and is therefore a key element of the food web in the Humboldt Current system (HCS). Here, we present results from the analysis of 21,203 anchoveta stomach contents sampled during 23 acoustic surveys over the period 1996–2003. Prey items were identified to the genus level, and the relative dietary importance of different prey was assessed by determination of their carbon content. Variability in stomach fullness was examined relative to the diel cycle, the distance from the coast, sea surface temperature, and latitude, using generalized additive models (GAMs). Whereas phytoplankton largely dominated anchoveta diets in terms of numerical abundance and comprised >99% of ingested prey items, the carbon content of prey items indicated that zooplankton was by far the most important dietary component, with euphausiids contributing 67.5% of dietary carbon followed by copepods (26.3%). Stomach fullness data showed that anchoveta feed mainly during daytime between 07h00 and 18h00, although night-time feeding also made a substantial contribution to total food consumption. Stomach fullness also varied with latitude, distance from the coast, and temperature, but with substantial variability indicating a high degree of plasticity in anchoveta feeding behaviour. The results suggest an ecological role for anchoveta that challenges current understanding of its position in the foodweb, the functioning of the HCS, and trophic models of the HCS.
©2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

16/560: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystemparticomparingtrophiclinkagesunderlaninaandelninoconditions> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part I: Comparing trophic linkages under La Niña and El Niño conditions
The El Niño of 1997–98 was one of the strongest warming events of the past century; among many other effects, it impacted phytoplankton along the Peruvian coast by changing species composition and reducing biomass. While responses of the main fish resources to this natural perturbation are relatively well known, understanding the ecosystem response as a whole requires an ecotrophic multispecies approach. In this work, we construct trophic models of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem (NHCE) and compare the La Niña (LN) years in 1995–96 with the El Niño (EN) years in 1997–98. The model area extends from 4°S–16°S and to 60 nm from the coast. The model consists of 32 functional groups of organisms and differs from previous trophic models of the Peruvian system through: (i) division of plankton into size classes to account for EN-associated changes and feeding preferences of small pelagic fish, (ii) increased division of demersal groups and separation of life history stages of hake, (iii) inclusion of mesopelagic fish, and (iv) incorporation of the jumbo squid (Dosidicus gigas), which became abundant following EN. Results show that EN reduced the size and organization of energy flows of the NHCE, but the overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators, detritus and export) of the ecosystem was maintained. The reduction of diatom biomass during EN forced omnivorous planktivorous fish to switch to a more zooplankton-dominated diet, raising their trophic level. Consequently, in the EN model the trophic level increased for several predatory groups (mackerel, other large pelagics, sea birds, pinnipeds) and for fishery catch. A high modeled biomass of macrozooplankton was needed to balance the consumption by planktivores, especially during EN condition when observed diatoms biomass diminished dramatically. Despite overall lower planktivorous fish catches, the higher primary production required-to-catch ratio implied a stronger ecological impact of the fishery and stresses the need for precautionary management of fisheries during and after EN. During EN energetic indicators such as the lower primary production/total biomass ratio suggest a more energetically efficient ecosystem, while reduced network indicators such as the cycling index and relative ascendency indicate of a less organized state of the ecosystem. Compared to previous trophic models of the NHCE we observed: (i) a shrinking of ecosystem size in term of energy flows, (ii) slight changes in overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators and detritus), and (iii) the use of alternate pathways leading to a higher ecological impact of the fishery for planktivorous fish.



610) Recherche du mot : CAP TOWN (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_ZAF_CPT)


611) Recherche du mot : Projet FADIO (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/projectFadio)


612) Recherche du mot : Purpleback flying squid (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sthenoteuthis_oualaniensis)


613) Recherche du mot : Greater argonaut (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/argonauta_argo)


614) Recherche du mot : dépression (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/through)


615) Recherche du mot : ALB (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_alalunga)


616) Recherche du mot : Longfin mako (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/isurus_paucus)


617) Recherche du mot : assesment tool (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/evaluation_tool)


618) Recherche du mot : Humpback red snapper (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lutjanus_gibbus)


619) Recherche du mot : ALF (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alepisaurus_ferox)


620) Recherche du mot : Brachysculus crusculum (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/brachysculus_crusculum)


621) Recherche du mot : TRMM Microwave Imager (TMI) (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tmi)


622) Recherche du mot : Galapagos shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_galapagensis)


623) Recherche du mot : Marine animal (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/marine_animal)


624) Recherche du mot : Computer sciences (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/computer_sciences)


625) Recherche du mot : CHABAHAR (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_IRN_ZBR)


626) Recherche du mot : sill (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/sill)


627) Recherche du mot : le rôle, la nature ou l'effet d'un outil dans l'interaction décrite (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/role_related_tool)


628) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus amblyrhynchoides (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_amblyrhynchoides)


629) Recherche du mot : cuvette (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/hole)


630) Recherche du mot : Ommastrephes bartrami (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ommastrephes_bartrami)


631) Recherche du mot : Observation (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/observation)
1/561: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/applicationofachlorophyllindexderivedfromsatellitedatatoinvestigatethevariabilityofphytoplanktoninthebenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Application of a chlorophyll index derived from satellite data to investigate the variability of phytoplankton in the Benguela ecosystem
The spatial and temporal variability in phytoplankton biomass in the Benguela ecosystem was investigated over an 8-year period using a chlorophyll index (Chi Index) derived from low resolution SeaWiFS ocean colour data. Monthly composite images revealed that the surface chlorophyll a concentration was high near the coast and generally decreased with distance offshore, allowing observation of the spatial extent of phytoplankton distribution in relation to coastal upwelling. The Chi Index was estimated as the integration of the chlorophyll a concentration from the coast to an offshore minimum level of 1mg m(-3). The index captured both the cross-shelf structure and the major part of the chlorophyllrich areas and was used to examine the average seasonality and annual variability in phytoplankton biomass. The data indicated that the Benguela ecosystem may be divided into two major sectors, north and south, with the divide occurring at the Luderitz upwelling cell where the Chi Index, the chlorophyll a concentration, and the offshore extent of phytoplankton were at a minimum. The index revealed a clearer and more contrasting seasonal pattern than simple coastal averaged values of chlorophyll. The latitudinal gradient and seasonal change in the index and wind forcing showed that the northern and southern sectors were out of phase and that the Benguela ecosystem appears to have a dipole structure. The interannual variation in biomass was highlighted and showed a high variability in the dipole, including shorter periods of synchronicity during 2001 and 2002. The simple Chi Index derived for the Benguela appears to be robust and generic enough to be applied to other upwelling systems as a reasonably good index of variability in phytoplankton biomass for comparative studies.

2/562: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/topmarinepredatorstracklagrangiancoherentstructures> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Top marine predators track Lagrangian coherent structures
Meso- and submesoscales (fronts, eddies, filaments) in surface ocean flow have a crucial influence on marine ecosystems. Their dynamics partly control the foraging behavior and the displacement of marine top predators (tuna, birds, turtles, and cetaceans). In this work we focus on the role of submesoscale structures in the Mozambique Channel in the distribution of a marine predator, the Great Frigatebird. Using a newly developed dynamic concept, the finite-size Lyapunov exponent (FSLE), we identified Lagrangian coherent structures (LCSs) present in the surface flow in the channel over a 2-month observation period (August and September 2003). By comparing seabird satellite positions with LCS locations, we demonstrate that frigatebirds track precisely these structures in the Mozambique Channel, providing the first evidence that a top predator is able to track these FSLE ridges to locate food patches. After comparing bird positions during long and short trips and different parts of these trips, we propose several hypotheses to understand how frigatebirds can follow these LCSs. The birds might use visual and/or olfactory cues and/or atmospheric current changes over the structures to move along these biologic corridors. The birds being often associated with tuna schools around foraging areas, a thorough comprehension of their foraging behavior and movement during the breeding season is crucial not only to seabird ecology but also to an appropriate ecosystemic approach to fisheries in the channel.

3/563: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/areviewofanalyticalapproachestoinvestigateseabirdenvironmentinteractions> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : A review of analytical approaches to investigate seabird-environment interactions
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution, and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In this paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour, and their environment in order to assess current trends, weaknesses, and future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated; and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where in most cases no behavioral information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. A vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird-environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, meso-scale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modeling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multi-scale, and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

4/564: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/changesinthetrophicstructureoffishdemersalcommunitiesinwestafricainthethreelastdecades> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Changes in the trophic structure of fish demersal communities in West Africa in the three last decades
Les écosystèmes marins en Afrique de l'Ouest sont très productifs et ont permis à d'importantes pêcheries de se développer rapidement au cours des dernières décennies. L'analyse de l'impact de la pêche sur les ressources exploitées est couramment conduite par des évaluations de type monospécifique. Dans cette étude, nous proposons une approche alternative qui permettrait de mieux intégrer la dimension écosystémique. En Guinée et au Sénégal, les pêcheries se sont développées récemment, parallèlement la collecte des données de débarquement et de campagnes scientifiques s'est mise en place. Aussi, les données couvrent toute une période depuis la date où les stocks étaient considérés comme non exploités jusqu'à la situation de surexploitation actuelle. Ce cas d'étude est analysé afin de regarder les changements intervenus dans la structure de l'écosystème, en particulier ceux qui pourraient être expliqués par l'augmentation de la pression de pêche. Pour cela, nous estimons des spectres trophiques et des séries de niveaux trophiques moyens pour les communautés de poissons démersaux. Un spectre trophique permet de montrer la répartition de la biomasse de l'écosystème ou la position des captures commerciales dans la chaîne trophique selon des classes de niveaux trophiques. Nous observons des changements importants dans la structure des écosystèmes guinéens et sénégalais. En particulier, la biomasse des hauts niveaux trophiques diminue tandis que celle des bas niveaux trophiques augmente ou reste relativement stable. Cette observation est peut être liée à un effet « Top-Down » du au relâchement de la prédation sur les bas niveaux trophiques. Au Sénégal, la même tendance est observée avec les donnée de captures. Par ailleurs, le niveau trophique moyen diminue significativement autant pour les captures que pour la biomasse. En Guinée, seule une diminution de la biomasse est observée en zone côtière. Globalement, ces résultats montrent que les activités de pêche ont un impact sur la structure trophique des écosystèmes et pour la première fois un effet « fishing down marine food web » est montré en Afrique de l'Ouest.

5/565: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climatevariabilityfishandfisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Climate variability, fish and fisheries
Fish population variability and fisheries activities are closely linked to weather and climate dynamics. While weather at sea directly affects fishing, environmental variability determines the distribution, migration, and abundance of fish. Fishery science grew up during the last century by integrating knowledge from oceanography, fish biology, marine ecology and fish population dynamics, largely focused on the great northern hemisphere fisheries. During this period, understanding and explaining interannual fish recruitment variability became a major focus for fisheries oceanographers. Yet, the close link between climate and fisheries is best illustrated by the effect of 'unexpected' events – i.e. non-seasonal, and sometimes catastrophic – on fish exploitation, such as those associated with the El Niño/ Southern Oscillation (ENSO). The observation that fish populations fluctuate at decadal time scales and show patterns of synchrony while being geographically separated drew attention to oceanographic processes driven by low frequency signals, as reflected by indices tracking large scale climate patterns such as the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) and the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO). This low frequency variability was first observed in catch fluctuations of small pelagic fish (anchovies, sardines), but similar effects soon emerged for larger fish such as salmons, various groundfish species, and some tuna species. Today, the availability of long time series of observations combined with major scientific advances in sampling and modelling the oceans ecosystems allows fisheries science to investigate processes generating variability in abundance, distribution and dynamics of fish species at daily, decadal and even centennial scales. These studies are central to the research programme of GLOBEC (Global Ocean Ecosystems Dynamics). In this review, we present examples of relationships between climate variability and fisheries at these different time-scales for species covering various marine ecosystems ranging from equatorial to sub-arctic regions. We describe some of the known mechanisms linking climate variability and exploited fish populations, as well as some leading hypotheses, and their implications for their management and for the modelling of their dynamics. We conclude with recommendations for collaborative work between climatologists,
oceanographers and fisheries scientists to resolve some of the outstanding problems in the development of sustainable fisheries.

6/566: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analyticalapproachestoinvestigatingseabirdenvironmentinteractionsareview> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Analytical approaches to investigating seabird–environment interactions: a review
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In the present paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour and their environment, in order to assess current trends, weaknesses and the future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where, in most cases, no behavioural information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. The vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas a few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird–environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, mesoscale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modelling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multiscale and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

7/567: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fadiofishaggregatingdevicesasintrumentedobservatoriesofpelagicecosystemsaeuropeanunionfundedprojectondevelopmentofnewobservationalinstrumentsandthebehavioroffisharoundfads> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : FADIO (Fish Aggregating Devices as Intrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) : a European Union funded project on development of new observational instruments and the behavior of fish around FADs
Associative behavior is a major component of the life of pelagic fish. Tropical tuna and other
species are often found in association with floating objects, with other animals, and with topographic
features such as seamounts. Because fish are more abundant, occur in larger schools, or are easier to catch
when aggregated, fishermen extensively use these associations to increase their catches. More than 50%
of the world tuna catches are made from schools associated with floating objects.
There is a clear need for new technologies to study these associations and to propose innovative
methods of management. The European Union has funded a project to study the requirements of future
assessment tools and to develop prototypes. The project: FADIO1 (Fish Aggregating Devices as
Instrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) has conducted five extensive field surveys of the
Western Indian Ocean in conjunction with the large-scale purse seine fishery operating on drifting FADs
that operates in this region.
The objectives of FADIO are to develop new observation and assessment tools and collect data
on the behavior of pelagic fish around drifting FADs. Two categories of instruments are being developed
in collaboration with manufacturers: (1) autonomous buoys equipped with 360º sonar and cameras to
observe aggregations, acoustic receivers to detect individuals carrying electronic tags and satellite uplinks
for both, (2) new electronic tags with ecological sensors. Various field experiments are conducted to
assist in the development of these prototypes. During these scientific cruises, different instruments and
methods are used to document the behavior of associated species concurrently resident on the same FAD,
including: fishing and acoustic tagging, passive and active acoustic surveys, and underwater visual
census. Those observations, combined together, provide valuable insights in the dynamics of FAD
aggregations.
These instruments can be used in the future (i) to build the foundation for future observatories of
pelagic ecosystems, using FADs as scientific platforms for observation and data collection, (ii) to
understand the effects of FADs on tuna and other associated species, even in remote areas, (iii) to help
reducing by-catch around FADs. FADIO began in 2003 and will end in Oct. 2006, with an exposition and
workshop at the Oceanographic Museum in Monaco.

8/568: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/schoolingbehaviourofsmallpelagicfishphenotypicexpressionofindependentstimuli> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Schooling behaviour of small pelagic fish: phenotypic expression of independent stimuli
We compared echo sounder measurements of fish schools on Venezuelan and Senegalese coastal shelves. In both areas Sardinella aurita was the predominant aggregative species; the stocks are known to be genetically independent. Persistent school typology is described by analysing 7 acoustic surveys in Venezuela and comparing with pioneer observations in Senegal. The echo types encountered in both countries were comparable, with S. aurita and their associated species having comparable schooling behaviour. School morphology appears to be more related to species than to global characteristics of their ecosystems, as fish school descriptors were similar for both stocks. Nevertheless, S. aurita may adopt different school morphologies. Differentiation between day and night fish schools was mainly due to morphological variables, as determined by fractal dimension. Echo types were different between day and night in both Venezuela and Senegal. This analysis shows that several independent parameters can influence school morphology. However, although schooling behaviour is temporally highly variable, it shows several constant, typical 2D morphological structures, i.e. echo types. The observation of small pelagic fish schools occurring during the night is not unusual according to the literature, although a strict diurnal schooling behaviour, with scattering during the night, is often reported. Schooling behaviour appears to be a phenotypic expression depending on biotic and abiotic stimuli, intrinsic characteristics and motivation.

9/569: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multibeamsonardetectionofsuspendedmusselculturegroundsintheopenseadirectobservationmethodsformanagementpurposes> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Multibeam sonar detection of suspended mussel culture grounds in the open sea: Direct observation methods for management purposes
The exploitation of offshore mussel farms is becoming important throughout the world, but monitoring this activity remains a difficult task. Here, we propose a specific method for this purpose. A total of 140 long-lines were monitored on a mussel culture ground in the French Mediterranean Sea during four experimental surveys deploying multibeam sonar devices mounted on poles (Reson Seabat 6012, 455 kHz) on small boats. This allowed geo-referenced observations to be made of the submerged mussel long-lines, as well as three-dimensional (3D) drawings of the long-line structures and the sea bed shapes, using long-line longitudinal sonar sampling. Three sonar data-analysis methods were applied: (i) direct two-dimensional (2D) visual interpretation of raw sonar video images; (ii) indirect 2D long-line drawings; and (iii) 3D digital long-line reconstructions. The development of these acoustic methods in shallow water provides scientists, managers and local authorities with a tool for observing the 3D position (geographical position and depth) of mussel cultures, for counting each structure by the ‘long-line echo-counting' method, for monitoring their shape in situ, and for classifying the mussel rope segments into three growth categories (‘in growth', ‘full' and ‘empty'). The use of acoustic tools for monitoring underwater mussel culture grounds, for management purposes and for scientific studies, could be extended to other artificial structures in shallow water environments.



632) Recherche du mot : Black swallower (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/chiasmodon_niger)


633) Recherche du mot : Spirule (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/spirula_spirula)


634) Recherche du mot : balise (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/balise)


635) Recherche du mot : Black snoek (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thyrsitoides_marleyi)


636) Recherche du mot : requin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/shark)


637) Recherche du mot : Auxis spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_spp)


638) Recherche du mot : Seawifs (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seawifs)
1/570: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/applicationofachlorophyllindexderivedfromsatellitedatatoinvestigatethevariabilityofphytoplanktoninthebenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Application of a chlorophyll index derived from satellite data to investigate the variability of phytoplankton in the Benguela ecosystem
The spatial and temporal variability in phytoplankton biomass in the Benguela ecosystem was investigated over an 8-year period using a chlorophyll index (Chi Index) derived from low resolution SeaWiFS ocean colour data. Monthly composite images revealed that the surface chlorophyll a concentration was high near the coast and generally decreased with distance offshore, allowing observation of the spatial extent of phytoplankton distribution in relation to coastal upwelling. The Chi Index was estimated as the integration of the chlorophyll a concentration from the coast to an offshore minimum level of 1mg m(-3). The index captured both the cross-shelf structure and the major part of the chlorophyllrich areas and was used to examine the average seasonality and annual variability in phytoplankton biomass. The data indicated that the Benguela ecosystem may be divided into two major sectors, north and south, with the divide occurring at the Luderitz upwelling cell where the Chi Index, the chlorophyll a concentration, and the offshore extent of phytoplankton were at a minimum. The index revealed a clearer and more contrasting seasonal pattern than simple coastal averaged values of chlorophyll. The latitudinal gradient and seasonal change in the index and wind forcing showed that the northern and southern sectors were out of phase and that the Benguela ecosystem appears to have a dipole structure. The interannual variation in biomass was highlighted and showed a high variability in the dipole, including shorter periods of synchronicity during 2001 and 2002. The simple Chi Index derived for the Benguela appears to be robust and generic enough to be applied to other upwelling systems as a reasonably good index of variability in phytoplankton biomass for comparative studies.

2/571: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/patternsofvariabilityofseasurfacechlorophyllinthemozambiquechannelaquantitativeapproach> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Patterns of variability of sea surface chlorophyll in the Mozambique Channel:A quantitative approach
We analyse the coupling between sea surface chlorophyll concentration (CC) and the physical environment in the Mozambique Channel (MZC) using statistical models. Seasonal and interannual patterns are studied along with the role of mesoscale dynamics on enhancement and concentration processes for phytoplankton. We use SeaWifs data for CC and two other remotely sensed data sets, TMMI for sea surface temperature (SST) and merged altimetry products for sea level anomaly and geostrophic current. Empirical Orthogonal Functions (EOF) on SSC and SST show strong seasonality and partition the MZC into three distinct sub-areas. The chlorophyll variability is mostly driven by seasonality, but more in the North (10°S–16°S) and South (24°S–30°S), and explains respectively 64% and 82% of the CC variance. In the Central part (16°S–24°S), the seasonal signal has less influence (60% variance). There, complex EOFs on Sea Level Anomaly (SLA) highlight the role of mesoscale activity (i.e. eddies and filament structures) in the spatial distribution of chlorophyll. Five mesoscale descriptors (shear, stretch, vorticity, deformation and eddy kinetic energy) are derived from the altimetry data to quantify the eddies-related physical patterns in the central region of the MZC. We use generalized Additive Models to explain the effect of those features on phytoplankton enhancement. The best model fit (r2=0.73) includes shear, stretch, vorticity and the latitude-longitude interaction as eddies are well structured in space. Cyclonic eddies associated with negative vorticity are conductive to phytoplankton enhancement by the effect of upwelling in the core notably during the spin-up phase. The interaction between eddies generate strong frontal mixing favourable to the production and aggregation of organic matter. The mesoscale activity is also affected by interannual variability with consequences on CC. We highlight a substantial reduction of the SLA pattern in 2000–2001 when the SOI positive phase is peaking (Nina-type pattern). The strong relationship between mesoscale eddies and SOI suggests that primary productivity in the MZC is also under the influence of distant forcing at a basin scale.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.



639) Recherche du mot : Spatial analysis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/spatial_analysis)
1/572: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/workshoponmappingandgeostatisticalmethodsforfisheriesstockassessment> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Workshop on Mapping and Geostatistical Methods for Fisheries Stock Assessment
The NAFO Scientific Council Special Session of September 2003 was the Workshop on Mapping and Geostatistical Methods for Fisheries Stock Assessment. The objective of the workshop was to provide participants with the basic understanding of geostatistical conceptes and methods, and provide tools to apply this knowledge to fisheries stock assessments. The instructors introduced freeware mapping and geostatistical software. Two sets of data were used for the lessons and demonstrations: the Canadian spring bottom trawl survey data from 1996 to 2002, and information from the yellowtail flounder commercial fishery on the Grand Bank from 1996 to 2002. The visualization, analysis and modeling of spatial data using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) were presented (e.g. Ocean Data View (ODV freeware), SPAN (Spatial Analysis System) and ACON (A CONtouring package). Surface (map) generating techniques were demonstrated using the various software packges. Geostatistical concepts and methods related to kriging, and methods for analyses using basics of the "R" software package were described.

2/573: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/relationshipsbetweenbenthicmacrofaunaandhabitatsuitabilityforjuvenilecommonsolesoleasolealinthevilaineestuarybayofbiscayfrancenurseryground> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Relationships between benthic macrofauna and habitat suitability for juvenile common sole (Solea solea, L.) in the Vilaine estuary (Bay of Biscay, France) nursery ground
Coastal and estuarine systems are among the most threatened by human activities which damage their ecological function and, in particular, their nursery role for many marine species. In this context, the protection of these vital ecosystems is a critical issue for the management of fisheries resources. To that aim, functional approaches have to be developed that make it possible to assess habitat suitability and quality. The common sole, Solea solea (L.) was selected as an indicator species to identify the features of coastal and estuarine nursery habitats in the Bay of Biscay (France). Previous studies have shown that young-of-the-year (YOY) sole are strongly dependent upon various abiotic factors, and especially bathymetry, sediment cover and the extent of river plumes. We investigated whether taking into account biological variables, based on benthic macrofauna biomasses aggregated into trophic group, may improve the description of the juvenile sole distribution in the Vilaine estuary nursery. Results from Generalised Linear Models demonstrated the importance of integrating these biological variables in the determination of juvenile habitats at a local scale. The abundance of YOY sole was correlated with an index of the benthic invertebrates biomass and, more specifically, with the biomass of suspension feeders. This result was reinforced by a one-dimensional spatial statistical analysis, which pointed out the similar distribution of invertebrate macrobenthos and juvenile sole along the upstream/downstream gradient of the estuary. Moreover, the inter-annual variations of abundance and distribution of juveniles were synchronous with those of the macrobenthos.



640) Recherche du mot : wandering albatross (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diomedea_exulans)


641) Recherche du mot : REUNION (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_REU_REU)
1/574: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.

2/575: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/exploratorybehaviourofademersalfisharoundanartificialreefwithacousticmultitaggingthecaseoflutjanuskasmirainstpaulbayreunionislandindianocean> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Exploratory behaviour of a demersal fish around an artificial reef with acoustic multitagging : the case of Lutjanus kasmira in St-Paul bay (Reunion island / Indian Ocean)


3/576: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/firstfieldbasedexperimentsupportingthemeetingpointhypothesisforschoolinginpelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : First field-based experiment supporting the meeting point hypothesis for schooling in pelagic fish
Aggregations of fish around fish aggregation devices (FADs) have been widely described in the literature;
most commercial catches of tuna by surface fisheries are performed around FADs, taking advantage of
this behaviour. The meeting point hypothesis (MPH) suggests that fish could make use of FADs to
increase the chance of encounters between conspecifics, helping individuals to form larger schools. To
attempt a validation of the MPH, we performed an experiment in the field to test the following
predictions: (1) fish spend more time at FADs than at any other random points and therefore aggregate
around FADs, and (2) fish arrive at FADs as isolated individuals or in small groups and leave them in
larger groups. Our investigation involved acoustic telemetry techniques commonly used to observe fish
at FADs. The study was carried out on a small pelagic fish species, the bigeye scad, Selar crumenophthalmus,
in Saint-Paul's Bay (Reunion Island). Our results validated our two predictions: FADs acted as
retention points, increasing the encounter rate of fish and enhancing schooling behaviour, thereby
supporting the meeting point hypothesis. FADs could be beneficial to the fitness of the associated fish,
promote increased school size and hence confer the advantages of being in a larger group. The impact of
the deployment of large number of FADs in some ocean regions is reinterpreted in light of our results.
 2009 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

4/577: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mercurycontentincommercialpelagicfishanditsriskassessmentinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Mercury content in commercial pelagic fish and its risk assessment in the Western Indian Ocean
As top predators of pelagic food webs, large fish naturally bioaccumulate mercury (Hg). Determining Hg burdens in commercialized fish is essential considering the concern about effects of contaminants on human health and the legal thresholds that are therefore set for local consumption and/or exportation. Total Hg levels were measured in the muscular tissue of 183 fish of five commercially important species from the tropical zone of the Western Indian Ocean. All individuals were measured and sexed in order to study the impregnation of Hg with size and sex within each species. Values of Hg found in this part of the Indian Ocean were comparable to Hg in muscular tissue of the same species studied in other areas. The highest Hg levels were noted in Swordfish (Xiphias gladius) caught in waters surrounding Reunion Island (3.97 ± 2.67 μg.g−1 dry weight). Following the Swordfish, in decreasing order of Hg content, were the Yellowfin Tuna (Thunnus albacares) and the Skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), then the Common Dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) and the Wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri ). In the North of the Mozambique Channel, Swordfish had higher Hg levels than Yellowfin Tunas, and Dolphinfish exhibited intermediate Hg levels. The size of a fish was a determinating factor of its Hg burden, as was the species. Differences in size-normalized Hg levels were observed between the two study zones for Swordfish and Common Dolphinfish. Sex, in contrast, did not influence Hg levels suggesting that females and males have similar feeding habits. The muscular Hg levels presented here suggest that consumers of fish originating from theWestern Indian Ocean should limit themselves to one Swordfish based meal per week, or one fish meal a day if they choose to eat tuna or Common Dolphinfish.

5/578: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/atenyearperiodofdailyseasurfacetemperatureatacoastalstationinreunionislandindianoceanjulyaprilpatternsofvariabilityandbiologicalresponses> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : A ten-year period of daily sea surface temperature at a coastal station in Reunion Island, Indian Ocean (July 1993 – April 2004): patterns of variability and biological responses


6/579: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/reproductivedynamicsofswordfishxiphiasgladiusinthesouthwesternindianoceanreunionislandpartfecundityandspawningpattern> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean (Reunion Island). Part 2: fecundity and spawning pattern
Batch fecundity and relative fecundity of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean were estimated from seven gravid swordfish females (size range 127-225 cm lower jaw-to-fork length, LJFL) with unovulated, hydrated oocytes collected onboard Reunion-based (France) longline swordfish fishing vessels between December 1999 to January 2001. To investigate the spawning pattern of swordfish, we used data collected through a combination of two at sea sampling regimes. A total of 17 007 geo-located size data of swordfish were recorded during 8 years (1993-2001) and a total of 1727 (size range 75-289 cm, LJFL) swordfish gonads (1107 females and 620 males) were sampled from May 1998 to January 2001. The estimated batch fecundity ranged from 995 000 hydrated oocytes for the smallest ripe female to 4.3 millions for the largest female sampled measuring respectively 127 to 225 cm in curved length (LJFL). The relative fecundity ranged from 25 to 72 hydrated oocytes per gram of body weight. We found that batch fecundity was positively correlated with fish length and that the older/larger females have earlier and longer spawning seasons than younger/smaller females. These findings suggested that older/larger females which are seasonally migrating in this spawning ground seem to play a major role in reproductive success of the species in producing significantly more offspring than younger females during an extended spawning season. Examination of the length-frequency date from the fishery indicated that the young fish are resident around Reunion and around the seamounts off Reunion Island. Our results highlight the important role of the older/larger females in the reproductive capacity of southwestern Indian Ocean stock. We discuss the potential implications of fishing the older/larger females for this stock in terms of reproduction and recruitment..

7/580: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingfishcommunitiesassociatedwithdriftingfishaggregatingdevicesfadsinthewesternindianoceanusingunderwatervisualsurveys> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Characterizing fish communities associated with drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean using underwater visual surveys
We adapted a visual census method, mainly used in demersal and reef fish studies, to characterize fish communities associated to drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean. Drifting FAD associated fishes from both equatorial (Seychelles) and tropical waters (Reunion Island) were examined by divers. A total of 32 species (belonging to 16 families) were observed associated with drifting FADs in equatorial waters, and 24 species (14 families) were found around FADs in tropical waters. Twenty species were found in both regions. The highest number of species observed at a single FAD was 18 (12 ± 2, mean ± SD) in equatorial and 13 (10 ± 3) in tropical waters, not counting circumnatant species loosely associated with the FAD. Some species like Kyphosus vaigiensis, Canthidermis maculata, Elagatis bipinnulata, Acanthocybium solandri and Coryphaena hippurus were observed on all or most of the surveys. In this study, the contribution in biomass of the 18 common species associated with drifting FADs (but excluding circumnatant species), represents more than 98% of the biomass. The overall biomass values of closely associated species remains well below tuna biomass estimates for circumnatant tuna schools at FADs, estimated as high as 200 tons. The species that most significantly contribute to the by-catch in tuna purse-seines logically match those that showing the highest biomass values in our surveys (Carcharhinus spp., Elagatis bipinnulata, Coryphaena hippurus, Canthidermis maculata, and Acanthocybium solandri). One of the most abundant and ubiquitous species in our study was the spotted oceanic triggerfish Canthidermis maculata that sometimes formed massive schools of many thousands individuals around the drifting FADs. Future research is needed to explore the role of such non tuna species in the attraction and aggregation processes of tuna around drifting FADs.

8/581: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ices> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : ICES
Small and large pelagic fish are known to aggregate around fish aggregating devices (FADs). One major question in this field is: can fish abundance around FADs be used as a proxy of the total fish abundance in the area? This issue was first addressed through acoustic observations on small pelagic fish in a bay of Reunion island (Western Indian Ocean). Twenty artificial structures such as moored buoys, artificial reefs, aquaculture cages, submarine shipwreck or fishing FADS, are scattered in the bay from 15 m to 50 m depth. We conducted 28 acoustic surveys during new moon periods from February 2003 to August 2006 in order to (1) characterize the effects of FADs on small pelagic fish distributions, (2) study if there is any relationship between the abundance of FAD-associated and non FAD-associated (free) shoals. The frequency histogram of the distance between fish shoals and the nearest FAD revealed a 150 m FAD influence on the distribution of shoals. This distance was applied to distinguish FAD-associated shoals (< 150 m) from free shoals (> 150 m). For these two types of shoal and for each survey, shoal densities (number of shoals by nautical miles) and acoustic and morphological descriptors were then computed. FAD-associated shoal densities were significantly related to free shoal densities, suggesting correlative evidence between both. However, the regression performed on acoustic and morphological descriptors did not show clear relationship. The potential of using densities of shoals around FADs as a proxy for total density in the area is discussed.

9/582: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bioaccumulationoftraceelementsinpelagicfishfromwesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Bioaccumulation of trace elements in pelagic fish from western Indian Ocean
Trace elements were analyzed in fish of commercial interest to determine their importance in marine systems of the Western Indian Ocean and their bioaccumulation patterns. The results are equivalent or lower than levels reported in ichthyofauna worldwide. Certain values of muscular Cd, Hg, Pb and Zn were, however, above thresholds for human consumption. Levels varied among tissues, species and fish length, but were seldom influenced by the nutritional condition of the fish, its gender and its reproductive status. Correlations between hepatic Hg and Se levels in Swordfish (r2 = 0.747) and Yellowfin Tunas (r2 = 0.226), and among metallothionein linking metals imply the existence of detoxification processes in these species. Level differences between fish from the Mozambique Channel and Reunion Island reflect differences of diets rather than differences of elemental availability in both environments.

Metal bioaccumulation was quantified in four species of pelagic fish.

10/583: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/reproductivedynamicsofswordfishxiphiasgladiusinthesouthwesternindianoceanreunionislandpartoocytedevelopmentsexualmaturityandspawning> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean (Reunion Island). Part 1: oocyte development, sexual maturity and spawning
The reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) was investigated from catches of the Reunion Island-based longline swordfish fishery between 19-25 degrees S and 48-54 degrees E. Thus, 1727 swordfish (size range 75-289 cm, lower jaw-to-fork length, LJFL) were sampled on board commercial fishing vessels during the period of May 1998 to January 2001. Reproductive activity was assessed using macroscopic gonad characteristics, trends of gonadal indexes for both sexes, oocyte size-frequency distributions and microscopic investigation of oocyte development stages. Size at first maturity (L-50) for female and male swordfish was estimated in Indian Ocean for the first time. L50 was estimated at 170 cm and 120 cm (LJFL) for females and males, respectively. Spawning occurred from October to April in the vicinity of Reunion Island where sex ratio of caught populations fluctuated seasonally. The seasonal changes in sex ratio and the incidence of larger individuals at the beginning of the spawning season provide some preliminary indications of synchronized movements of swordfish between spawning grounds and neighboring regions. Our results add significantly to knowledge about the reproductive biology of swordfish in the southwestern Indian Ocean. An overview of the available information on reproductive biology and dynamics of swordfish in Indian Ocean and eastern Pacific indicated that spawning activity is localized in discrete areas, and showed that there is incomplete information on spawning grounds in this extended area.

11/584: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/visualcensusesoftropicalfishaggregationsonartificialreefsslateversusvideorecordingtechniques> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Visual censuses of tropical fish aggregations on artificial reefs: slate versus video recording techniques
Artificial coastal reefs were initially installed off Reunion Island (SW Indian Ocean) in order to attract and catch small pelagic fish of economic importance for the local fishery. These artificial reefs also attract a high density of juvenile coral reef fish, especially after recruitment. Because of high species richness and density, a suitable method of evaluating diversity and abundance in such assemblages is needed. An experiment was conducted in situ for 1 year in order to test which of the two visual techniques, slate or video recording, would be the most suitable for sampling artificial reefs. For the quantitative study, a rope framework (four belt transects each measuring 24×3 m) was used to ease the movement of the divers. To avoid bias due to time variations, the study was conducted under limited time in situ. The advantages and disadvantages of the two techniques regarding the accuracy of qualitative and quantitative results are discussed. The qualitative study results show that the slate technique is the most accurate one for determining species richness. In the quantitative study, factors such as species characteristics (ecological type), attractiveness (relationship between fish and diver) and abundance of fish communities around the artificial reefs appear to influence our results on the comparison of the two techniques. Of 13 [`]permanent' (observed in more than 75% of dives) species, 6 returned a similar frequency of detection by slate and video (Lutjanus kasmira, Lutjanus bengalensis, Priacanthus hamrur, Chaetodon kleinii, Heniochus diphreutes, Mulloides vanicolensis); these were then selected for comparison of the techniques using quantitative data. The correlation between video and slate census results is high, but, in comparison with the slate census, the video census underestimates abundance, especially for low values. A corrected index is proposed to remedy this underestimation; it could be used for video surveys conducted on species responding well to video detection (as below).



642) Recherche du mot : Lethrinus spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lethrinus_spp)


643) Recherche du mot : Propriété qui donne l'URL correspondant à cette espèce dans Fishbase (pour un poisson) (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fishbaseId)


644) Recherche du mot : Fish Agrregating Device (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/FAD)


645) Recherche du mot : tortue de Kemp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lepidochelys_kempii)


646) Recherche du mot : Lion de mer (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/otaria_flavescens)


647) Recherche du mot : flottant objet (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/objet_flottant)


648) Recherche du mot : Croupia roche (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lobotes_surinamensis)


649) Recherche du mot : outil d'exploitation, de métiers, d'activités (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/administration_tool)


650) Recherche du mot : MSY (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/MSY)
1/585: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/onthenorthatlanticalbacorestockandonitspotentialsubpopulations> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : On the North Atlantic albacore stock and on its potential sub populations
This paper discusses the potential biological heterogeneity of the North Atlantic albacore stock. Based on the historical work by Aloncle and Delaporte in 1974, the paper keeps the hypothesis that at least 3 sub populations, well stratified & following an east west gradient of longitude, could have been exploited by the albacore surface fisheries. This heterogeneity of the stock has not been taken into account in the present stock assessment by SCRS, but it could play a major role in the fishery trend, as the present shrinking of the historical fishing zones could have produced a decline of the present stock MSY. Scientific investigations are actively recommended to solve this major uncertainty in the stock structure of the Northern Atlantic albacore stock and to better evaluate its potential impact on the stock assessment results.

2/586: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/onthemajorinteresttodoallyellowfinstockassessmentanalysisintheeasternpacificsinceorbefore> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : On the major interest to do all yellowfin stock assessment analysis in the Eastern Pacific since 1950, or before
This paper examine the shifting base line syndrome faced by the yellowfin stock assessment done by the IATTC staff, as when its historical stock assessment were starting in 1934, all the present stock assessment start only in 1975. The paper concludes that future yellowfin stock assessment should be conducted starting since the beginning of the yellowfin fisheries, for instance in 1920. Such extended analysis should be based on an the results of ad hoc data mining program allowing to recover and to incorporate in the IATTC data base all these historical data. The assessment model should also be modified in order to fully use all these new data and the major changes in stock and fisheries (for instance in catchabilities, size selectivities and fishing zones). It is concluded that such extended analysis covering the early fishery should widely improve the modelling of present stock status and the validity of the estimated MSY.

3/587: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fishlifehistoriesandmarineprotectedareasanoddcouple> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Fish life histories and marine protected areas: an odd couple?
ABSTRACT: Though marine protected areas (MPAs) have recently become a central element of many marine resource management plans, the potentially negative effects of MPAs for fisheries harvests remain the major impediment to their use. Understanding population responses to implementation of MPAs, and their consequences for harvests, is essential to assessing the value of MPAs as a management tool. Here I use a simple model to link what we know best about marine species, namely how fast they grow and how much they reproduce, with what we want to know, namely what will be the effects of spatial management efforts. Specifically, I show that whether maximum sustainable yield (MSY) or yield at fixed total recruitment increases with MPAs can be determined by an intuitive equation comparing the change in average individual biomass (i.e. harvestable material) with the change in individual lifetime reproduction due to increasing reserve area. Application of this model to different population structures demonstrates that initial MPA results indicating MSY would be unchanged with reserves for species with simple life-histories do not hold up for species for which biomass, reproduction or mortality vary with age. This explains many negative MPA results from age-structured models of optimally exploited species. On the other hand, the model predicts that species harvested later in life, and which begin reproduction after first harvest, may benefit from MPAs. Nevertheless, for these increases to occur, the age at first reproduction must in general be a considerable time after the age at first harvest.

4/588: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evaluationoftheperformanceandrobustnessofvpabasedstockassessmentandmsybasedmanagementstrategytoprocesserrortheatlanticbluefintunacasestudy> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Evaluation of the performance and robustness of VPA-based stock assessment and MSY-based management strategy to process error : The Atlantic bluefin tuna case study
An integrative simulation framework was built to evaluate the consequences of variability attributable to changes in carrying capacity or the stock's migration pattern of Atlantic bluefin tuna on the ICCAT stock assessment and management procedures. We also evaluated the performances of stock assessment methods with respect to their ability to provide good estimates of MSY, FMSY and BMSY and tested the robustness of the current ICCAT management strategy to uncertainty about the true dynamics and historical exploitation levels. The results clearly indicate that the VPA performances were seriously impaired if the long-term variations in catches are due to changes in migration/availability. There is further considerable confounding between the underlying dynamics and increasing effort that makes it difficult to draw any inference about the actual dynamics based on commercial catch data. Reference points based on F (e.g., F0.1) were less biased and more precise than those based on yield and/or SSB and were also more robust to uncertainty about the true dynamics than absolute values of F and SSB. However, F0.1 cannot indicate past and current levels of exploitation relative to FMSY when there is uncertainty about the dynamics. Therefore, while reference points such as F0.1 may be good proxies for FMSY, the MSY concept may be difficult to make operational. A size limit strategy generates greater yields than the more sophisticated F0.1, but lower SSB. However, the performances of both strategies were strongly dependent on the period over which they are implemented relative to the intrinsic cycle of the population. We finally stressed that the performances and robustness of management strategies also depend on concrete objectives, such as fleet composition, gear selectivity and economic constraints.

5/589: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/applicationoftheproceanmodeltotheeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamistunafishery> : SCORE = 0.91553277
Doc : Application of the Procean Model to the eastern atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) tuna fishery
The PROCEAN (PRoduction Catch / Effort ANalysis) model is a multi-fleet biomass dynamic
model developed in a Bayesian framework to conduct stock assessments based on catch and
effort time series data. PROCEAN was applied to the eastern component of the Atlantic
skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) to assess the current status of the stock and provide reference
points to fishery managers. Data included 8 time series of catch and effort data spanning from
1969 to 2006 and mostly standardised based on generalized linear modelling techniques.
Informative priors and constraints for some parameters were used to allow the model to
converge. Model fits were generally good but indicated increasing trends in the residuals for
some fishing fleets. Results suggested that the eastern Atlantic skipjack stock would be
underexploited, with a biomass in 2006 equal to 1.8 times the biomass at the maximum
sustainable yield (MSY) and a fishing mortality in 2006 equal to 30% of the fishing mortality at
MSY (FMSY). A sensitivity analysis performed to account for uncertainty in some input
parameters showed that FMSY estimates were robust to parameter changes while MSY estimates
were sensitive to the prior distribution for MSY. Based on the different model runs, the MSY
was estimated to be comprised between 152,000 and 185,000 t. The use of random walks on
catchability was useful for tracking changes in catchability and associated increasing fishing
power for some baitboat fishing fleets targeting skipjack.



651) Recherche du mot : seachannel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/seachannel)


652) Recherche du mot : Prionace glauca (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/prionace_glauca)
1/590: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/historicaldatabaseonsoviettunalonglinetunaresearchintheindianandatlanticoceansfirstresultsofyugnironmfsdatarescueproject> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Historical database on Soviet tuna longline tuna research in the Indian and Atlantic oceans (first results of YugNIRO-NMFS data rescue project)
YugNIRO (formerly AzCherNIRO, till 1988), Kerch, Ukraine started tuna research in the Indian Ocean in early 1960-ies and such studies continued till early 1990-ies. For research purposes medium-sized fishing trawlers converted for pelagic longlining were used. Recent data inventory accounted about 130 research, searching, and fishing pelagic longline cruises for 1961-1989 targeted tunas (generally Thunnus), billfishes (Makaira, Tetrapturus, Xiphias gladius), pelagic sharks (Carcharhinus, Isurus, Alopias, Prionace glauca, Galeocerdo cuvier). Other pelagic species were recorded as bycatch. More than 5200 longline sets with about 2.5 millions nominal hooks were shot. For every research cruise the following data were colleted on set by set basis: number of hooks, hooks distribution by depth, total catch, and catch by species. Almost all the fish caught were measured, weighed, and analyzed. Estimated catch depth of every fish was recorded. Environmental data and MBT station data generally available. Due to lack of computer equipment and limited funding throughout years of data sampling this valuable data were stored on paper as logbooks of longline catches and biological analysis. In spite the careful treatment by YugNIRO personnel, there were a danger of loss for these unique data due to natural deterioration of media under time impact, accidents, natural disasters, other extraordinary situations, etc. In late 2002 under support of NMFS and NFWF data “rescue” project which principal goals were preparation of computer database and make this data available for joint YugNIRO/SWFSC analysis and for IOTC and ICCAT was started. “Rescue” is carried out by digitizing of the data, which exist only as manuscripts, in order to store them on computer media in the form of relational database. This project is at the final stage at presents, since most of the data available are in the digital form. These data represent unique dataset for Indian Ocean which could be used as an independent long-term biological and fisheries database as well as additional information to databases of IPTP/IOTC and national databases of other research center. Data and database description, database structure, first results of the database creation, data digitizing, and analyses, and potential access to the data is presented in this paper.



653) Recherche du mot : Apogonidae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/apogonidae)


654) Recherche du mot : concept du domaine de l'AEP (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/aep_domain_concept)


655) Recherche du mot : Epinephelus areolatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/epinephelus_areolatus)


656) Recherche du mot : roundbelly cowfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lactoria_diaphana)


657) Recherche du mot : Pollicipes pollicipes (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pollicipes_pollicipes)


658) Recherche du mot : Caretta caretta (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/caretta_caretta)


659) Recherche du mot : GEOdesic SATellite (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/GEOSAT)


660) Recherche du mot : radar (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/radar)
1/591: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/surfacecurrentsduringanomalousupwellingseasonsoffcentralcalifornia> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Surface currents during anomalous upwelling seasons off central California
An extensive spatio-temporal surface currents dataset from central California, USA is
used to examine in detail two extreme years in the California Current. 2006 is
characterized by an extended period of calm winds during the critical early months of the
upwelling season (April, May). This lead to little or no upwelling over this period,
essentially delaying the onset of the upwelling season. 2007 is characterized by
extremely strong alongshore wind stress during the first quarter of the year and during the
early part of the upwelling season. This produced monthly-mean alongshore current
velocities over the mid-shelf for April 2007 in excess of 0.7 m s-1, which has not been
previously observed in this region for periods of more than a few days since the
installation of the HF radar instruments in 2001. Both of these extremes appear to have
had important consequences for the coastal ecosystem that have been documented
elsewhere, including the collapse of parts of the trophic web (2006) and the presence of
large quantities of water of deep origin over the continental shelf (2007). Understanding
and describing circulation and transport patterns during these extremes is important in
light of predictions from global climate change, which may cause these extreme
conditions to occur more frequently.

2/592: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialinterpolationandfilteringofsurfacecurrentdatabasedonopenboundarymodalanalysis> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Spatial interpolation and filtering of surface current data based on open-boundary modal analysis
[1] The use of high-frequency (HF) radar surface current measurements are limited by spatial coverage gaps and sparse sampling. The normal mode (NMA) and open-boundary mode (OMA) current decomposition techniques developed by Lipphardt et al. (2000) and Lekien et al. (2004), respectively, produce smooth two-dimensional current fields by fitting data to a set of spatial modes. These methods have the advantages of incorporating the coastal boundary condition and providing a controllable level of spatial smoothing. While computation of and fitting to modes has been previously examined, variations and limitations of the technique have not been fully explored. Here we expand on the original OMA algorithm to incorporate radial currents produced by individual HF radars. Assimilating radial measurements maximizes use of available data and avoids the additional step and error of creating vector currents from radial data. We also develop techniques for dealing with spatially nonuniform data distributions and data gaps. Estimates of measurement error are propagated to evaluate the uncertainty of interpolated current fields. We illustrate our findings and assess the robustness of the OMA technique for calculating currents, divergences, and vorticities using HF radar data from Bodega Bay and Monterey Bay, California. Though care must be taken when using the technique as occasional shortage of data (e.g., temporary failure of a radar station) can produce erroneous fitted currents, OMA provides a robust mechanism for interpolating and filtering two-dimensional velocity measurements. Furthermore, OMA-derived errors provide a transparent and useful estimate of spatial patterns of uncertainty.

3/593: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hfradarobservationsofsurfacecirculationoffbodegabaynortherncaliforniausa> : SCORE = 0.91553277
Doc : HF radar observations of surface circulation off Bodega Bay (northern California, USA)
[1] Two high-frequency radar stations (CODAR) were installed along the northern California coast in May 2001. Comparisons of radar data with acoustic Doppler current profiler ( ADCP) current data and near-surface drifter tracks indicate considerable agreement, with minimum RMS differences of order 0.05 - 0.15 m/s and average drifter-HF-radar track separation rates of 5 +/- 3 km/d. Radar data resolve the three main sources of intraseasonal current variability in the area: ( 1) upwelling/relaxation dynamics, ( 2) tidal and diurnal forcing, and ( 3) inertial currents. Subtidal fluctuations are the largest component of variability, accounting for 45 - 75% of the variance. Wind-driven dynamics are the dominant source of this subtidal variability (67% of subtidal variability). Both upwelling and relaxation periods exhibit consistent patterns of surface velocity, with nearshore currents being slower and more poleward than offshore currents, which are strongly equatorward. Analysis of tidal and inertial variability indicate that current fluctuations are polarized toward clockwise rotation and are generally weaker and more linearly polarized near the coast. M-2 tidal current ellipses switch direction of rotation at the shelf break, suggesting the presence of internal tidal waves. Currents in all frequency bands are deflected and accelerated around Pt. Reyes, and there are indications of increased current variability and changes in flow direction near Cordell Bank. The presence of considerable cross-shore and alongshore gradients in the strength and direction of surface flow patterns, and in particular weak poleward currents over the inner shelf, could have important consequences for plankton retention in the area.

4/594: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hfradarderivedoriginanddestinationofsurfacewatersoffbodegabaycalifornia> : SCORE = 0.8775515
Doc : HF radar-derived origin and destination of surface waters off Bodega Bay, California
As an integral part of the WEST study of the role of wind-driven transport in shelf productivity, HF radar currents are analyzed to determine typical surface flow patterns off Bodega Bay in northern California. Radar-derived surface trajectories and surface velocity divergences are used to determine the proximal origins and destinations of surface waters in the area. Surface trajectory results show a strong bimodality, with water over the entire shelf originating in the north under upwelling conditions and waters over the inner/mid-shelf originating in the south during relaxation conditions. Outer shelf waters have more variable transport patterns during relaxation conditions, with limited equatorward or onshore movements being most typical. The destinations of surface waters starting at the outer shelf are predominantly offshore, with the majority of particles exiting the radar domain west of Pt Reyes along the shelf edge in less than 2 days. Significant proportions of water from the inner/mid-shelf are exported southward and exit the radar domain inshore or within 20 km of the tip of Pt Reyes, creating possibilities for either nearshore retention in the Bodega region or entrainment of water into the Gulf of Farallons. Approximately 15% of all trajectories remained in the radar domain for 6 days, suggesting that a biologically significant percentage of larvae might be retained in the area for time periods approaching typical larval durations. Calculations of surface divergence indicate where vertical flux may be significant. An extensive area of positive divergence is observed off Bodega during upwelling conditions, while weakly convergent flow is observed where upwelling flows approach Pt Reyes. Positive divergence also is observed during relaxation periods when poleward flow separates from the shore just north of Pt Reyes. Estimates of vertical flux in these divergence zones point to a significant contribution of recently upwelled waters to the observed horizontal fluxes at the surface. Determination of the ultimate source and fate of phytoplankton-rich waters requires further analysis of the detailed time dependence of phytoplankton concentration relative to the time dependence of wind-forced currents. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.



661) Recherche du mot : processus écologique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ecological_process)


662) Recherche du mot : egg (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/egg)
1/595: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/roleofpredationbyharpsealspagophilusgroenlandicusinthecollapseandnonrecoveryofnortherngulfofstlawrencecodgadusmorhua> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Role of predation by harp seals Pagophilus groenlandicus in the collapse and non-recovery of northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod Gadus morhua
A statistical catch-at-age model was developed to assess the effects of predation by the northwest Atlantic harp seal population on northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod by estimating the relative importance of different sources of mortality that affected the stock during a period of collapse and non-recovery. Cod recruitment at age 1 is modeled via a non-linear stock-recruitment relationship based on total egg production and accounts for changes in female length-at-maturity and cod condition. Natural mortality other than seal predation also depends on cod condition used as an integrative index of changes in environmental conditions. The linkage between seals and cod is modeled through a multi-age functional response that was derived from the reconstruction of the seal diet using morphometric relationships and stomach contents of more than 200 seals collected between 1998 and 2001. The model was fitted following a maximum likelihood estimation approach to a scientific survey abundance index (1984 to 2006). Model results show that the collapse of the northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod stock was mainly due to the combination of high fishing mortality rates and poor environmental conditions in the early to mid-1990s contributing to the current state of recruitment overfishing. The increase in harp seal abundance during 1984 to 2006 was reflected by an increase in predation mortality for the young cod age-groups targeted by seals. Although current levels of predation mortality affect cod spawning biomass, the lack of recovery of the NGSL cod stock seems mainly due to the very poor recruitment.

2/596: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingandcomparingthespawninghabitatsofanchovyengraulisencrasicolusandsardinesardinopssagaxinthesouthernbenguelaupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 0.8775515
Doc : Characterizing and comparing the spawning habitats of anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem
The spawning habitats of anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus and sardine Sardinops sagax in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem were characterised by comparing their egg abundances with environmental variables measured concomitantly during two different survey programmes: the South African Sardine and Anchovy Recruitment Programme (SARP), which comprised monthly surveys conducted during the austral summers of 1993/94 and 1994/95; and annual pelagic spawner biomass surveys conducted in early summer (November/December) from 1984 to 1999. Eggs were collected using a CalVET net. Physical variables measured included sea surface temperature (SST), surface salinity, water depth, mixed-layer depth, and current and wind speeds; biological variables measured included phytoplankton biomass, and zooplankton biomass and production. Spawning habitat was identified by construction of quotient curves derived from egg abundance data and individual environmental variables, and relationships between these variables were determined using multivariate co-inertia analysis. SARP data showed that anchovy spawning was associated with cool water and moderate wind and current speeds, whereas sardine spawning was related to warmer water and more turbulent and unstable conditions (i.e. high wind speeds and strong currents) than for anchovy. SARP data also showed significant differences in selection of spawning habitat of the two species for all environmental variables. The relationship between anchovy egg abundance and salinity was strongly positive, but strongly negative with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. Sardine egg abundance was strongly positively related to current speed. The spawner biomass survey data demonstrated that the spawning habitat of anchovy was characterised by warm water and high salinity, whereas sardine spawning was associated with cool water and low salinity. The survey data showed significant differences in spawning habitat selection by anchovy and sardine for SST, salinity and zooplankton biomass, but not for the other environmental variables. There was a positive relationship between anchovy egg abundance and SST, salinity and mixed-layer depth, and a negative relationship with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. For sardine there was a strong positive relationship between egg abundance and current speed and wind speed. Differences in the results between the two survey programmes could be attributable to differences in their spatio-temporal coverage. Spawning habitats of anchovy and sardine appear to be substantially different, with anchovy being more specific than sardine in their preference of various environmental conditions.

3/597: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/eggandlarvaedistributionofsevenfishspeciesinthenortheastwaters> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Egg and larvae distribution of seven fish species in the north-east waters
The distribution of egg and larvae of mackerel, horse mackerel, sardine, hake, megrim, blue whiting and anchovy along the European Atlantic waters (south Portugal to Scotland) during 1998 is described. Time of the year, sea surface temperature and bottom depth are used to define the spawning habitat of the different species. Mackerel, horse mackerel, and sardine eggs and larvae presented the widest distribution, whereas megrim and anchovy showed a limited distribution, restricted to the Celtic Sea and the Bay of Biscay respectively. Correspondingly mackerel, horse mackerel and sardine showed the highest aggregation indices. Blue whiting larvae were found at the lowest temperatures, whereas anchovy eggs and larvae were found in the warmest waters. The analysis is a basis for evaluation of ongoing changes in the pelagic ecosystem of the north-east Atlantic.

4/598: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anindividualbasedmodelstudyofanchovyearlylifehistoryinthenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystem> : SCORE = 1.0832729
Doc : An individual-based model study of anchovy early life history in the northern Humboldt Current system
We used an individual-based model of anchovy (Engraulis ringens) early life history coupled with hydrodynamic outputs from the regional oceanic modeling system (ROMS) to investigate the factors driving variability in egg and larval survival rates in the northern Humboldt upwelling region off Peru. Individuals were released within a coastal area and followed for a period of 30 days. Those that were still in the coastal area at that time were considered as retained. We investigated the spatial and temporal variability in the release locations of the individuals retained, and compared these to observed egg concentration patterns reconstructed from a 40-year period of monitoring. A first set of simulations using passive particles to represent anchovy eggs and larvae revealed a large sensitivity of the results to the initial vertical distribution of particles. We then conducted two additional sets of simulations that included the effect of egg buoyancy, larval vertical swimming behavior and lethal temperature. We obtained (1) maximal coastal retention close to the surface in winter and in deeper layers in summer, (2) a large influence of egg buoyancy and of larval vertical behavior on coastal retention in all seasons, (3) a partial match between dates and locations of enhanced retention and observed egg concentration patterns and (4) a low effect of lethal temperature on survival except when associated with high egg density. The model suggests that an optimal temporal spawning pattern for maximizing coastal retention would have two maximums, the most significant in austral winter and the second in summer. This pattern agrees roughly with observed spawning seasonality, but with temporal discrepancy of about two months in the peaks of both series. Spatially, we obtained higher retention from 10 S to 20 S, whereas the observed maximum egg concentration was located between 6°S and 14°S. Among the three sets of simulations, the one taking into account larval vertical swimming behavior lead to the best match with the data.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

5/599: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingsardineandanchovyichthyoplanktontransportinthecanarycurrentsystem> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Modelling sardine and anchovy ichthyoplankton transport in the Canary Current System
The Canary Current System, centred along the north-western coast of Africa, is one of the four major eastern boundary currents of the world ocean. It sustains a large amount of small pelagic fish, mainly sardine (Sardina pilchardus; Sardinella spp.) and anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus). One of the particularities of this system is the presence of the Canary archipelago, which is close enough to the continental coast to allow exchange of biological material between the two areas. We use intermediate-resolution (7 km) hydrodynamic simulations as inputs for an individual-based model to assess the transport of ichthyoplankton (i) along the African coast and (ii) from the African coast to the Canary archipelago. We explored different scenarios of passive versus active vertically swimming larvae to assess the possible impact of vertical migration on transport and retention. Transport along the coast was essentially southward. The zone located between Cape Draa and Cape Juby had relatively high levels of retention in autumn and winter. The zone extending from Cape Boujdor up to Cape Blanc had high retention levels during the entire year. Larvae transported from the coast to the archipelago came mainly from the area located between Cape Ghir and Cape Juby, whereas larvae retained in the eddy field downstream of the islands originated mainly from the area between Cape Juby to Dakhla. The results are discussed in relation to available field data of anchovy and sardine egg distributions over the continental shelf, and compared with oceanic surveys of larval presence near the Canary archipelago.

6/600: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anchovyearlylifeinthenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystemanindividualbasedmodelstudy> : SCORE = 1.0832729
Doc : Anchovy early life in the northern Humboldt Current system: an individual-based model study
We used an individual-based model of anchovy (Engraulis ringens) early life history coupled with hydrodynamic outputs from the regional oceanic modeling system (ROMS) to investigate the factors driving variability in egg and larval survival rates in the northern Humboldt upwelling region off Peru. Individuals were released within a coastal area and followed for a period of 30 days. Those that were still in the coastal area at that time were considered as retained. We investigated the spatial and temporal variability in the release locations of the individuals retained, and compared these to observed egg concentration patterns reconstructed from a 40-year period of monitoring. A first set of simulations using passive particles to represent anchovy eggs and larvae revealed a large sensitivity of the results to the initial vertical distribution of particles. We then conducted two additional sets of simulations that included the effect of egg buoyancy, larval vertical swimming behavior and lethal temperature. We obtained (1) maximal coastal retention close to the surface in winter and in deeper layers in summer, (2) a large influence of egg buoyancy and of larval vertical behavior on coastal retention in all seasons, (3) a partial match between dates and locations of enhanced retention and observed egg concentration patterns and (4) a low effect of lethal temperature on survival except when associated with high egg density. The model suggests that an optimal temporal spawning pattern for maximizing coastal retention would have two maximums, the most significant in austral winter and the second in summer. This pattern agrees roughly with observed spawning seasonality, but with temporal discrepancy of about two months in the peaks of both series. Spatially, we obtained higher retention from 10 S to 20 S, whereas the observed maximum egg concentration was located between 6°S and 14°S. Among the three sets of simulations, the one taking into account larval vertical swimming behavior lead to the best match with the data.

7/601: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingenvironmentaleffectsonthesizestructuredenergyflowthroughmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Modeling environmental effects on the size-structured energy flow through marine ecosystems.
This paper presents an original size-structured mathematical model of the energy flow through marine ecosystems, based on established ecological and physiological processes and mass conservation principles. The model is based on a nonlocal partial differential equation which represents the transfer of energy in both time and body weight (size) in marine ecosystems. The processes taken into account include size-based opportunistic trophic interactions, competition for food, allocation of energy between growth and reproduction, somatic and maturity maintenance, predatory and starvation mortality. All the physiological rates are temperature-dependent. The physiological bases of the model are derived from the dynamic energy budget theory. The model outputs the dynamic size-spectrum of marine ecosystems in term of energy content per weight class as well as many other size-dependent diagnostic variables such as growth rate, egg production or predation mortality.

In stable environmental conditions and using a reference set of parameters derived from empirical studies, the model converges toward a stationary linear log–log size-spectrum with a slope equal to −1.06, which is consistent with the values reported in empirical studies. In some cases, the distribution of the largest sizes departs from the stationary linear solution and is slightly curved downward. A sensitivity analysis to the parameters is conducted systematically. It shows that the stationary size-spectrum is not very sensitive to the parameters of the model. Numerical simulations of the effects of temperature and primary production variability on marine ecosystems size-spectra are provided in a companion paper [Maury, O., Shin, Y.-J., Faugeras, B., Ben Ari, T., Marsac, F., 2007. Modeling environmental effects on the size-structured energy flow through marine ecosystems. Part 2: simulations. Progress in Oceanography,



663) Recherche du mot : Lobianchia gemellari (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lobianchia_gemellari)


664) Recherche du mot : longliner (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/longliner)


665) Recherche du mot : Decapterus kurroides (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/decapterus_kurroides)


666) Recherche du mot : Sarda orientalis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sarda_orientalis)


667) Recherche du mot : plateforme (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/platform)


668) Recherche du mot : swell (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/swell)


669) Recherche du mot : Kyphosis sectatrix (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/kyphosis_sectatrix)


670) Recherche du mot : Océan Atlantique nord (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/northAtlanticOcean)


671) Recherche du mot : plateau (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/plateau)
1/602: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bilandelutilisationdesmethodesvisuellesenhalieutique> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Bilan de l'utilisation des méthodes visuelles en halieutique
Pour faire progresser les connaissances sur l'écosystème marin, il est indispensable d'améliorer les méthodes d'acquisition de données. Le  besoin en est renforcé par les incertitudes liées aux données de captures et l'inaccessibilité des zones protégées et des terrains accidentés aux engins de chalutage traditionnels. Dans cette perspective, les méthodes visuelles offrent des avancées. La campagne Vital (août 2002) avec le robot téléguidé Victor 6000 et la campagne Mertail (août 2004) avec l'engin tracté Merlin ont permis d'évaluer le potentiel de l'approche visuelle pour l'étude des communautés de poissons profonds (Vital) et celles du plateau continental (Mertail).

2/603: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/chantiergolfedegascogne> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Chantier Golfe de gascogne
L'action des engins de pêche sur le fond a déjà été décrite, filmée. La comparaison de prélèvements dans le secteur de la Grande Vasière réalisés à 30 ans d'intervalle met en évidence une évolution de la faune et de la nature du fond (Le Loch, 2004). Mais peu de chiffres argumentés permettent de quantifier l'impact des engins de pêche sur le fond.
Cette étude pluridisciplinaire se base sur :
- une connaissance de la structure sédimentaire du plateau de la Grande Vasière,
- une analyse des phénomènes en jeu dans le cycle dépôt-remobilisation de la colonne sédimentaire (apports fluviaux, front thermo-halin, houle, courant, organismes fouisseurs,….),
- une typologie des engins de pêche utilisés sur le plateau et un descriptif (largeur balayée, enfoncement, …) de l'action de chacun des éléments (bourrelet, chaîne, bras, panneau)
- une sélection de l'effort de pêche 2003 pour 6 classes de longueur de navire, 9 carrés statistiques, 2 types d'engin (chalut simple ou jumeau) et 2 types de prises (langoustines ou non : différenciation des efforts focalisés sur la Grande Vasière de ceux également répartis dans les carrés statistiques ).
Les résultats portent sur la surface balayée et la quantité de sédiments fins remis en suspension. La paramétrisation des formules permet de tester l'influence de tels ou tels éléments dans le bilan global.
Ainsi chaque mètre carré de la Grande Vasière est balayé au minimum 6 fois par an. La remobilisation des sédiments fins par les engins de pêche est comparable à la remobilisation par les tempêtes.

3/604: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thedynamicsofcollapseinworldfisheries> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : The dynamics of collapse in world fisheries
The fear of a rapid depletion of world fish stocks because of over-exploitation is increasing. Analysis of 1519 main series of the FAO world fisheries catch database over the last 50 years reveals that 366 fisheries' collapses occurred, that is nearly one fishery of four. The robustness of this result is tested by performing several complementary analyses using different conservative options. The number of collapses has been stable through time since 1950s indicating no improvement in the overall fisheries management. Three typical patterns emerge from the analysis of catch series during the period preceding the collapses: smooth collapse (33%), i.e. a long regular decline, erratic collapse (45%), i.e. a fall after several ups and downs, and a plateau-shaped collapse (21%), i.e. a sudden fall after a relatively long and stable persistence of high level of catches. Using a simple mathematical model, we relate the plateau-shaped collapses (which are, by nature, the most difficult to predict) to surreptitiously increasing exploitation and a depensatory mechanism at low population levels. Thus, a stable level of catch over several years is shown to conceal the risk of a sudden collapse. This jeopardizes the common assumption that considers the stability of catch as a goal for fisheries sustainability.

4/605: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.



672) Recherche du mot : Thonine commune (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/euthynnus_alleteratus)


673) Recherche du mot : Projet SIAP (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/projectSIAP)


674) Recherche du mot : Brama spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/brama_spp)


675) Recherche du mot : Cornuda común (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyrna_lewini)


676) Recherche du mot : Projet Pelmed (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/projectPelmed)


677) Recherche du mot : Lampadena luminosa (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lampadena_luminosa)


678) Recherche du mot : FAO identifier for the order of a taxon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/faoOrder)


679) Recherche du mot : Administrative areas (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/administrative_area)


680) Recherche du mot : Antea (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/antea)


681) Recherche du mot : Foca elephante del sur (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mirounga_leonina)


682) Recherche du mot : Encornet bande violette (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sthenoteuthis_oualaniensis)


683) Recherche du mot : senneur (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/purse_seiner)


684) Recherche du mot : Makaira spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_spp)


685) Recherche du mot : Bull shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_leucas)


686) Recherche du mot : Scalloped hammerhead (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyrna_lewini)


687) Recherche du mot : Magnisudis atlantica : autre terme dans worms !! Magnisudis atlantica !! (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/paralepis_atlantica)


688) Recherche du mot : Black snake mackerel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/nealotus_tripes)


689) Recherche du mot : Senne (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seine)


690) Recherche du mot : Outil d'exploitation, de métiers, d'activités (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/exploitation_tool)


691) Recherche du mot : Alopias spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alopias_spp)


692) Recherche du mot : Unicorn crestfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/eumecichthys_fiski)


693) Recherche du mot : bordure continentale (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/borderland)


694) Recherche du mot : FRI (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_thazard)


695) Recherche du mot : Bonito mono (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sarda_orientalis)


696) Recherche du mot : Oplophorus typus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/oplophorus_typus)


697) Recherche du mot : Finetooth shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_isodon)


698) Recherche du mot : Porbeagle (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lamna_nasus)


699) Recherche du mot : Tiburón de puntas blancas (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_albimarginatus)


700) Recherche du mot : Pole and line fishing (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/canne)


701) Recherche du mot : Géomatique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/geomatic)


702) Recherche du mot : juvénile (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/juvenile)


703) Recherche du mot : Courant de Humboldt (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/humboldt_ecosystem)


704) Recherche du mot : Groupers, seabasses nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/serranidae)


705) Recherche du mot : Scomberomorus cavalla (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_cavalla)


706) Recherche du mot : landing (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/landing)
1/606: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thethreedimensionalflightofredfootedboobiesadaptationstoforaginginatropicalenvironment> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : The three dimensional flight of red footed boobies: adaptations to foraging in a tropical environment
In seabirds a broad variety of morphologies, flight styles and feeding methods exist as an adaptation to optimal foraging in contrasted marine environments for a wide variety of prey types. Because of the low productivity of tropical waters it is expected that specific flight and foraging techniques have been selected there, but very few data are available. By using five different types of high-precision miniaturized logger (global positioning systems, accelerometers, time depth recorders, activity recorders, altimeters) we studied the way a seabird is foraging over tropical waters. Red-footed boobies are foraging in the day, never foraging at night, probably as a result of predation risks. They make extensive use of wind conditions, flying preferentially with crosswinds at median speed of 38 km h−1, reaching highest speeds with tail winds. They spent 66% of the foraging trip in flight, using a flap–glide flight, and gliding 68% of the flight. Travelling at low costs was regularly interrupted by extremely active foraging periods where birds are very frequently touching water for landing, plunge diving or surface diving (30 landings h−1). Dives were shallow (maximum 2.4 m) but frequent (4.5 dives h−1), most being plunge dives. While chasing for very mobile prey like flying fishes, boobies have adopted a very active and specific hunting behaviour, but the use of wind allows them to reduce travelling cost by their extensive use of gliding. During the foraging and travelling phases birds climb regularly to altitudes of 20–50 m to spot prey or congeners. During the final phase of the flight, they climb to high altitudes, up to 500 m, probably to avoid attacks by frigatebirds along the coasts. This study demonstrates the use by boobies of a series of very specific flight and activity patterns that have probably been selected as adaptations to the conditions of tropical waters.

2/607: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/zooplanktonandforagefishspeciesoffperulargescalebottomupforcingandlocalscaledepletion> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Zooplankton and forage fish species off Peru: large-scale bottom-up forcing and local-scale depletion
The Humboldt Current System, like all upwelling systems, has dramatic quantities of plankton-feeding fish, which suggested that their population dynamics may ‘drive' or ‘control' ecosystem dynamics. With this in mind we analysed the relationship between forage fish populations and their main prey, zooplankton populations. Our study combined a zooplankton sampling program (1961–2005) with simultaneous acoustic observations on fish from 40 pelagic surveys (1983–2005) conducted by the Peruvian Marine Research Institute (IMARPE) and landing statistics for anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) along the Peruvian coast from 1961 to 2005. The multi-year trend of anchoveta population abundance varied consistently with zooplankton biovolume trend, suggesting bottom-up control on anchovy at the population scale (since oceanographic conditions and phytoplankton production support the changes in zooplankton abundance). For a finer-scale analysis (km) we statistically modelled zooplankton biovolume as a function of geographical (latitude and distance from the 200-m isobath), environmental (sea surface temperature), temporal (year, month and time-of-day) and biological (acoustic anchovy and sardine biomass within 5 km of each zooplankton sample) covariates over all survey using both classification and regression trees (CART) and generalized additive models (GAM). CART showed local anchoveta density to have the strongest effect on zooplankton biovolume, with significantly reduced levels of biovolume for higher neighbourhood anchoveta biomass. Additionally, zooplankton biovolume was higher offshore than on the shelf. GAM results corroborated the CART findings, also showing a clear diel effect on zooplankton biovolume, probably due to diel migration or daytime net avoidance. Apparently, the observed multi-year population scale bottom-up control is not inconsistent with local depletion of zooplankton when anchoveta are locally abundant, since the latter effect was observed over a wide range of overall anchoveta abundance.

3/608: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteontheyearlycatchesbycountryandgearofthefismfranceivorycoastsenegalmoroccofleetduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Note on the yearly catches by country and gear of the FISM (France - Ivory Coast - Senegal - Morocco) fleet during the 1969-1990 period
The current ICCAT Task 1 statistics database does not include any record of catch for Senegal and Ivory Coast during the period 1969-1990 as these data were historically included in the aggregated catch data of the so-called “FISM” fleet under the flag ‘EC.France'. Landing and logbook data were used to reallocate the FISM fleet catch between countries. This analysis shows the need to clarify the Task 1 ICCAT statistics by country and historic gear, and ask France, Ivory Coast and Senegal to declare their respective catch during 1969-1990. This change in the ICCAT database will not affect the total catch of Task 1 statistics.

4/609: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/sustainableexploitationofsmallpelagicfishstockschallengedbyenvironmentalandecosystemchangesareview> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Sustainable exploitation of small pelagic fish stocks challenged by environmental and ecosystem changes: a review
Small pelagic fish contribute up to 50% of the total landing of marine species. They are most abundant in upwelling areas and contribute to food security. Exploited stocks of these species are prone to large interannual and interdecadal variation of abundance as well as to collapse. We discuss why small pelagic fish and fisheries are so "special" with regard to their biology, ecology, and behavior. Two adjectives can sum up the characteristics of pelagic species: variability and instability. Analyses of the relationships between small pelagic fish and their physical environment at different time-scales illustrate the complexity of the interplay between exploitation and environmental impacts. How small pelagic fish species are positioned and related within the trophic web suggests that these species play a central role in the functioning and dynamics of upwelling ecosystems. Finally, we discuss the sustainable exploitation of small pelagic fisheries through appropriate management, focusing on the resilience to exploitation, a comparison of different management options and regulatory mechanisms. We recommend that statistical, socio-economical, and political merits of a proposed two-level (short- and long-term) management strategy be undertaken.

5/610: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/sexspecificforagingbehaviourinaseabirdwithreversedsexualdimorphismtheredfootedbooby> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Sex-specific foraging behaviour in a seabird with reversed sexual dimorphism, the red-footed booby
Most hypotheses attempting to explain the evolution of reversed sexual dimorphism (RSD) assume that size-related differences in foraging ability are of prime importance, but the studies on sex-specific differences in foraging behaviour remain scarce. We compare the foraging behaviour of males and females in a seabird species with a RSD by using several miniaturised activity and telemetry loggers. In red-footed boobies males are 5% smaller and 15% lighter than females, but have a longer tail than females. Both sexes spend similar time on the nest while incubating or brooding. When foraging at sea, males and females spend similar time foraging in oceanic waters, forage in similar areas, spend similar proportion of their foraging trip in flight, and feed on similar prey—flying fishes and flying squids—of similar size. However, compared to males, females range farther during incubation (85 km vs. 50 km), and furthermore feed mostly at the extremity of their foraging trip, whereas males actively forage throughout the trip. Males are much more active than females, landing and diving more often. During the study period, males lost mass, whereas females showed no significant changes. These results indicate that males and females of the red-footed boobies differ in several aspects in their foraging behaviour. Although some differences found in the study may be the direct result of the larger size of females, that is, the slightly higher speeds and deeper depths attained by females, others indicate clearly different foraging strategies between the sexes. The smaller size and longer tail of males confer them a higher agility, and could allow them to occupy a foraging niche different from that of females. The higher foraging effort of males related to its different foraging strategy is probably at the origin of the rapid mass loss of males during the breeding period. These results suggest that foraging differences are probably the reason for the differential breeding investment observed in boobies, and are likely to be involved in the evolution and maintenance of RSD.



707) Recherche du mot : Talenduic (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/talenduic)


708) Recherche du mot : Sea Level Anomaly (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seaLevelAnomaly)
1/611: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/patternsofvariabilityofseasurfacechlorophyllinthemozambiquechannelaquantitativeapproach> : SCORE = 1.7371014
Doc : Patterns of variability of sea surface chlorophyll in the Mozambique Channel:A quantitative approach
We analyse the coupling between sea surface chlorophyll concentration (CC) and the physical environment in the Mozambique Channel (MZC) using statistical models. Seasonal and interannual patterns are studied along with the role of mesoscale dynamics on enhancement and concentration processes for phytoplankton. We use SeaWifs data for CC and two other remotely sensed data sets, TMMI for sea surface temperature (SST) and merged altimetry products for sea level anomaly and geostrophic current. Empirical Orthogonal Functions (EOF) on SSC and SST show strong seasonality and partition the MZC into three distinct sub-areas. The chlorophyll variability is mostly driven by seasonality, but more in the North (10°S–16°S) and South (24°S–30°S), and explains respectively 64% and 82% of the CC variance. In the Central part (16°S–24°S), the seasonal signal has less influence (60% variance). There, complex EOFs on Sea Level Anomaly (SLA) highlight the role of mesoscale activity (i.e. eddies and filament structures) in the spatial distribution of chlorophyll. Five mesoscale descriptors (shear, stretch, vorticity, deformation and eddy kinetic energy) are derived from the altimetry data to quantify the eddies-related physical patterns in the central region of the MZC. We use generalized Additive Models to explain the effect of those features on phytoplankton enhancement. The best model fit (r2=0.73) includes shear, stretch, vorticity and the latitude-longitude interaction as eddies are well structured in space. Cyclonic eddies associated with negative vorticity are conductive to phytoplankton enhancement by the effect of upwelling in the core notably during the spin-up phase. The interaction between eddies generate strong frontal mixing favourable to the production and aggregation of organic matter. The mesoscale activity is also affected by interannual variability with consequences on CC. We highlight a substantial reduction of the SLA pattern in 2000–2001 when the SOI positive phase is peaking (Nina-type pattern). The strong relationship between mesoscale eddies and SOI suggests that primary productivity in the MZC is also under the influence of distant forcing at a basin scale.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

2/612: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleeddiesinfluencedistributionandaggregationpatternsofmicronektoninthemozambiquechannel> : SCORE = 1.5353953
Doc : Mesoscale eddies influence distribution and aggregation patterns of micronekton in the Mozambique Channel
Oceanic mesoscale circulation is a crucial structuring force for the marine environment. Dynamical processes associated with eddies such as eddy-induced upwelling or eddy-eddy interaction drive the transport and distribution of nutrients which support the whole food chain presumably through bottom-up processes. It has been largely documented that eddies can shape the distribution of both low (phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish larvae) and high trophic levels (top fish predators, seabirds or turtles) but the impact of mesoscale features on intermediate trophic levels (micronekton) remains poorly explored. In this work, we analysed the influence of eddies on the distribution of micronekton aggregations in the Mozambique Channel by combining acoustic data and satellite sea topography data. We demonstrated that large aggregations of micronekton occurred mainly in areas of high local horizontal gradient of sea level anomaly, i.e., at the periphery of eddies. We observed that eddies in the region, when running along the coast, advect at their edges coastal rich waters, which support the base of the trophic chain. We propose that eddies can shape the distribution and the aggregation patterns of the forage fauna of marine top predators through bottom-up processes.



709) Recherche du mot : Renard pélagique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alopias_pelagicus)


710) Recherche du mot : Taraska (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/taraska)


711) Recherche du mot : LAS PALMAS (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_ESP_LPA)


712) Recherche du mot : Lepidochelys kempii (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lepidochelys_kempii)


713) Recherche du mot : Dogtooth tuna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/gymnosarda_unicolor)


714) Recherche du mot : Decapterus sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/decapterus_sp)


715) Recherche du mot : Ecosystème du golfe du Benguale (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bay_of_bengual_ecosystem)


716) Recherche du mot : La pêche palangrière à l'espadon à la Réunion (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/fisheryWithLonglineLaReunionEspadon)


717) Recherche du mot : Requin marteau (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyrna_lewini)


718) Recherche du mot : Renard à gros yeux (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alopias_superciliosus)


719) Recherche du mot : Aguja negra (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_indica)


720) Recherche du mot : nanozooplankton (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/nanozooplankton)


721) Recherche du mot : Aire marine protégée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/amp)


722) Recherche du mot : Escolier noir (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lepidocybium_flavobrunneum)


723) Recherche du mot : Méditerranée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mediterranean_ecosystem)
1/613: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ledroitdesespacesmarinsentreprescriptionsinternationalesetlegislationsnationaleslexempledesairesmarinesdemediterranee> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Le droit des « espaces » marins, entre prescriptions internationales et législations nationales, l'exemple des aires marines de Méditerranée


2/614: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/pecheursdethonsetconservationdesressourcesdehautemermenacessurlethonrougedemediterranee> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Pêcheurs de thons et conservation des ressources de haute mer : menaces sur le thon rouge de Méditerranée ?




724) Recherche du mot : Magnisudis atlantica (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/paralepis_atlantica)


725) Recherche du mot : DIEGO SUAREZ (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_MDG_DIE)


726) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus wheeleri (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_wheeleri)


727) Recherche du mot : Dusky grouper (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/epinephelus_marginatus)


728) Recherche du mot : Makaira mazara (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_mazara)


729) Recherche du mot : Mégafaune (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/megafauna)


730) Recherche du mot : human element (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/human_element)


731) Recherche du mot : Acoustic (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/acoustic)
1/615: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usingamarkovtypemodeltocombinetrawlandacousticdatainfishsurveys> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Using a Markov-type model to combine trawl and acoustic data in fish surveys


2/616: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/optimizingthedesignofacousticsurveysofperuviananchoveta> : SCORE = 2.4566321
Doc : Optimizing the design of acoustic surveys of Peruvian anchoveta


3/617: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/behaviorofdolphinfishcoryphaenahippurusarounddriftingfadsasobservedfromautomatedacousticreceivers> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Behavior of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) around drifting FADs as observed from automated acoustic receivers
To study the behavior of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) around drifting Fish Aggregating Devices (FADs), we tagged individuals with long-lived, coded sonic transmitters and attached automated sonic receivers to drifting FADs in two regions of theWestern Indian Ocean. Among the three tagging methods used in this study (surgery, external hooks, underwater bait without capture), the latest resulted in residence times significantly shorter than the other ones, likely due to regurgitation. Dolphinfish tagged with the two other methods usually stayed several days associated to FADs (Kaplan-Meier survival analysis 5.09 days, mean 6.25 days, SD 4.39 days, maximum 15.26 days), drifting with them. There was no significant difference in the residence times of dolphinfish in equatorial and tropical areas. While associated to FADs, dolphinfish spent most of their time close to floating object (<365 m). The total time spent away from FADs was low (median 8%), and likely corresponded to making feeding excursions. Dolphinfish did not form a single school while associated to a given FADs, but formed multiple small schools. FADs are likely to be sites with exchanges of individuals between schools. These results are discussed in regards to the possibility of FADs acting as ecological traps and the validity of meeting-point hypotheses as an explanation for fish aggregations under floating objects.

4/618: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragingofthegreenseaturtlecheloniamydasonseagrassbedsatmayotteislandindianoceandeterminedbyacoustictransmitters> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Foraging of the green sea turtle Chelonia mydas on seagrass beds at MayotteIsland (Indian Ocean), determined by acoustic transmitters
We studied the foraging rhythms of green sea turtles Chelonia mydas on the seagrass
beds of N'Gouja Bay, Mayotte Island (Comoros Archipelago) with acoustic transmitters and moored
listening stations. We monitored 8 tagged turtles (4 probable males, 3 probable females and 1 immature),
from 70 to 109 cm curved carapace length (CCL), for durations ranging from 5 to 92 d. The
turtles exhibited a regular diel pattern: they foraged mainly during the day (on average 87% of seagrass
detections were between 06:00 and 18:00 h) and rested on the inner reef slope during the night.
Night time feeding activities were observed on the seagrass bed when the night light was high. The
presence of turtles on the seagrass bed at night was significantly correlated with a night light index
(r = 0.54, p = 0.002), which included both moon light and cloudiness indices. Behaviour of the only
immature individual observed was similar to adult turtles, although it rested more frequently around
noon. All turtles displayed a high fidelity to 1 foraging site within the seagrass bed. Acoustic transmitters
and permanent listening stations are an appropriate technique for long-term behavioural
studies of turtles, with no human interaction with turtles during tracking, and represent a suitable
technique to assess the possible effects of environmental changes or human activities upon green
turtle behaviour.

5/619: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/exploratorybehaviourofademersalfisharoundanartificialreefwithacousticmultitaggingthecaseoflutjanuskasmirainstpaulbayreunionislandindianocean> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Exploratory behaviour of a demersal fish around an artificial reef with acoustic multitagging : the case of Lutjanus kasmira in St-Paul bay (Reunion island / Indian Ocean)


6/620: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/firstfieldbasedexperimentsupportingthemeetingpointhypothesisforschoolinginpelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : First field-based experiment supporting the meeting point hypothesis for schooling in pelagic fish
Aggregations of fish around fish aggregation devices (FADs) have been widely described in the literature;
most commercial catches of tuna by surface fisheries are performed around FADs, taking advantage of
this behaviour. The meeting point hypothesis (MPH) suggests that fish could make use of FADs to
increase the chance of encounters between conspecifics, helping individuals to form larger schools. To
attempt a validation of the MPH, we performed an experiment in the field to test the following
predictions: (1) fish spend more time at FADs than at any other random points and therefore aggregate
around FADs, and (2) fish arrive at FADs as isolated individuals or in small groups and leave them in
larger groups. Our investigation involved acoustic telemetry techniques commonly used to observe fish
at FADs. The study was carried out on a small pelagic fish species, the bigeye scad, Selar crumenophthalmus,
in Saint-Paul's Bay (Reunion Island). Our results validated our two predictions: FADs acted as
retention points, increasing the encounter rate of fish and enhancing schooling behaviour, thereby
supporting the meeting point hypothesis. FADs could be beneficial to the fitness of the associated fish,
promote increased school size and hence confer the advantages of being in a larger group. The impact of
the deployment of large number of FADs in some ocean regions is reinterpreted in light of our results.
 2009 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

7/621: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/determinismandplasticityoffishschoolingbehaviourasexemplifiedbythesouthpacificjackmackereltrachurusmurphyi> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Determinism and plasticity of fish schooling behaviour as exemplified by the South Pacific jack mackerel (Trachurus murphyi)
Pelagic fish schools are thought to show a general pattern of dispersion at night and aggregation within schools during the day. This pattern is often accepted as the major rule driving most of the other physiological, biological and ecological processes. Foraging on mobile prey, for instance, is assumed to be enhanced by schooling behaviour. Current theory assumes then that foraging is only possible for obligatory gregarious predatory fish from dawn to dusk. However, offshore mesopelagic communities perform vertical migrations and are out of reach for most oceanic pelagic predators during the day (with the exception of some apex predators, e.g. swordfish or big-eye tuna). To investigate how fish may overcome this apparent contradiction, we studied the 3-dimensional spatial strategy of the South Pacific jack mackerel Trachurus murphyi according to the abiotic and biotic conditions of the habitat. Data came from acoustic surveys performed in central Chile in 1997, 1998 and 1999. Our results show that the jack mackerel distribution was driven by prey during the night when foraging, and related to the hydrology when resting during the day in the upper part of the oxycline. Fish were more aggregated at night than during the day, probably because jack mackerel cycles of schooling behaviour depend primarily on prey availability. This 'atypical' behaviour could be an adaptation of gregarious pelagic fish to an oceanic ecosystem. Fish schooling behaviour is not necessarily driven directly by the diel cycle; rather, it can be functional and depends on prey availability.

8/622: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitelinkedacousticreceiverstoobservebehavioroffishesinremoteareas> : SCORE = 0.91553277
Doc : Satellite-linked acoustic receivers to observe behavior of fishes in remote areas
Automated acoustic receivers are now widely used by biologists to study the behavior of fish. However, currently available acoustic receivers require physical recovery of the units to download stored data. Such operation is often difficult in remote study areas like in the open ocean. We present a new satellite-linked acoustic receiver (Vemco VR3-Argos) that allows downloading data through a satellite uplink (Argos). The VR3-Argos can last up to one year, sending GPS positions and tag data at regular time intervals. We illustrate the advantages of this new technology with tagging data from 121 fish of seven species (yellowfin tuna, bigeye tuna, skipjack tuna, wahoo, dolphinfish, silky shark and oceanic triggerfish) caught and released around drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean, far from any land. In opposition with the classic acoustic receivers (Vemco VR2), the use of VR3-Argos allowed to collect data for several weeks after leaving the drifting FADs. Maximum residence times of 3 days for bigeye tuna, 7 days for skipjack, 8 days for wahoo, 10 days for silky shark and 15 days for yellowfin tuna, dolphinfish and oceanic triggerfish could be recorded. VR2 and VR3-Argos are equivalent in terms of quality of residence times data, however depth data obtained through satellites are aggregated in 8 classes for compression purposes, which leads to a loss of precision available with raw data. Future directions of this technology are discussed.

9/623: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acousticcharacterizationoftropicaltunapreyinthewesternindianoceaninrelationwithenvironmentalconditions> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Acoustic characterization of tropical tuna prey in the Western Indian Ocean in relation with environmental conditions
From 2002 to 2004, four scientific cruises were conducted by the Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD) in the Mozambique Channel (Western Indian Ocean), in order to study the pelagic habitat of large top predators such as tuna and tuna-like species. Acoustic data were recorded to investigate the spatial and temporal distribution of plankton layers and micronekton aggregations. Top predators (tunas and tuna-like species) that were caught by longlines were considered as biological samplers of the micronekton organisms. The Sea Level Anomalies (SLA) were used to characterize the presence of a persistent field of mesoscale anticyclonic gyres in the Mozambique Channel. In this study, we studied the possible links between the mesocale dynamics of the eddies, the presence of prey detected by acoustics, and the diet of tunas caught by longlines. We attempted to demonstrate the importance of mesoscale dynamics for the productivity in this area (i.e., occurrence of cyclonic eddies in the Mozambique Channel) for the distribution of the micronekton organisms that are consumed by the top predators.

10/624: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/omnidirectionalmultibeamsonarmonitoringapplicationsinfisheriesscience> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Omnidirectional multibeam sonar monitoring: applications in fisheries science
Data exploitation, acquired by medium-frequency omnidirectional multibeam sonar, enables original studies in fisheries research but is seldom used despite the fact that such equipment is found on most fishing vessels and a number of research vessels. This is the only system for real-time monitoring of fish schools within a horizontal omnidirectional plane about a vessel or a buoy. Between 1996 and 2001, we used two standard omnidirectional sonars and developed new methodologies for exploiting their specific acoustic data according to two main sampling schemes: 'prospecting', including fishing and searching operations, and 'drifting', as with an instrumental buoy system or aboard a stationary vessel. We present a complete method for continuous data acquisition from aboard a research vessel or commercial boat, with automated data extraction by picture analysis and a data processing method. Two cases of data analysis are considered: the first on a school-by-school basis, the 'single school' mode; the second taking into account all fish schools detected within the sonar sampling volume, the 'cluster' mode. Elementary sonar information is divided into five categories that comprise 24 survey and sonar parameters and 55 school, cluster and fisher behaviour descriptors. We review the applications of these categories and discuss perspectives for their use in fisheries science. If the sonar system enables the evaluation of the effects of vessel avoidance on fish school biomass assessment, no accurate abundance estimate can be provided by a simple sonar echo-integration process. Omnidirectional sonar data can be used to analyse collectively the fish schools' swimming speed, kinematics in terms of diffusion and migration, aggregative dynamics as school splitting and merging indexes, spatial characteristics of clusters such as school density, 2D structure and fisher behaviour. The prospect of integrating such data into a fish school database, including multifrequency echo-sounder and lateral multibeam (3D) sonar data combined with a species recognition method, will enable a complete view of fish school behaviour and consequently the adoption of accurate fisheries management methods.

11/625: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/zooplanktonandforagefishspeciesoffperulargescalebottomupforcingandlocalscaledepletion> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Zooplankton and forage fish species off Peru: large-scale bottom-up forcing and local-scale depletion
The Humboldt Current System, like all upwelling systems, has dramatic quantities of plankton-feeding fish, which suggested that their population dynamics may ‘drive' or ‘control' ecosystem dynamics. With this in mind we analysed the relationship between forage fish populations and their main prey, zooplankton populations. Our study combined a zooplankton sampling program (1961–2005) with simultaneous acoustic observations on fish from 40 pelagic surveys (1983–2005) conducted by the Peruvian Marine Research Institute (IMARPE) and landing statistics for anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) along the Peruvian coast from 1961 to 2005. The multi-year trend of anchoveta population abundance varied consistently with zooplankton biovolume trend, suggesting bottom-up control on anchovy at the population scale (since oceanographic conditions and phytoplankton production support the changes in zooplankton abundance). For a finer-scale analysis (km) we statistically modelled zooplankton biovolume as a function of geographical (latitude and distance from the 200-m isobath), environmental (sea surface temperature), temporal (year, month and time-of-day) and biological (acoustic anchovy and sardine biomass within 5 km of each zooplankton sample) covariates over all survey using both classification and regression trees (CART) and generalized additive models (GAM). CART showed local anchoveta density to have the strongest effect on zooplankton biovolume, with significantly reduced levels of biovolume for higher neighbourhood anchoveta biomass. Additionally, zooplankton biovolume was higher offshore than on the shelf. GAM results corroborated the CART findings, also showing a clear diel effect on zooplankton biovolume, probably due to diel migration or daytime net avoidance. Apparently, the observed multi-year population scale bottom-up control is not inconsistent with local depletion of zooplankton when anchoveta are locally abundant, since the latter effect was observed over a wide range of overall anchoveta abundance.

12/626: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anchovyengraulisringensandsardinesardinopssagaxspatialdynamicsandaggregationpatternsinthehumboldtcurrentecosystemperufrom> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Anchovy (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) spatial dynamics and aggregation patterns in the Humboldt Current ecosystem, Peru, from 1983-2003
Three indexes of spatial aggregation are developed and used to examine the aggregation pattern of sardine (Sardinops sagax) and anchovy (Engraulis ringens) in the Peruvian Humboldt Current System, determined from 36 acoustic surveys conducted from 1983 through 2003 by the Peruvian Marine Institute (IMARPE). Each index assesses a different aspect of aggregation: the concentration, the percent occupancy of space and the clustering of high-fish abundance. Both time-series correlation and tree-based clustering-regression method, classification and regression trees (CART), were used to relate each of the indexes to environmental variables (season, temperature anomaly and year). Additionally, a measure of onshore-offshore distribution, the average distance from the coast, and abundance variables (the average acoustic backscatter per occupied sampling unit, and the acoustically estimated total abundance of sardine and anchovy from IMARPE) were related to environmental factors by using CART. We show that the 1983-2003 time series can be divided into three different periods: with shifts in 1992 and in 1997-98. Sardine and anchovy showed large differences in both abundance and aggregation among these periods. Although upwelling ecosystems support dramatic and sudden changes in environmental conditions, fish responses are sometimes smoother than usually suggested and there are transition periods with concomitant high biomasses of anchovy and sardine, but with different spatial aggregation patterns. Observed relationships between environmental proxies and aggregation patterns support the habitat-based hypothesis that environmentally mediated alterations in range lead to population changes.

13/627: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/behaviorofyellowfinthunnusalbacaresandbigeyetobesustunainanetworkoffishaggregatingdevicesfads> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Behavior of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) and bigeye (T-obesus) tuna in a network of fish aggregating devices (FADs)
The influence of multiple anchored fish aggregating devices (FADs) on the spatial behavior of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) and bigeye tuna (T. obesus) was investigated by equipping all thirteen FADs surrounding the island of Oahu (HI, USA) with automated sonic receivers ("listening stations") and intra-peritoneally implanting individually coded acoustic transmitters in 45 yellowfin and 12 bigeye tuna. Thus, the FAD network became a multi-element passive observatory of the residence and movement characteristics of tuna within the array. Yellowfin tuna were detected within the FAD array for up to 150 days, while bigeye tuna were only observed up to a maximum of 10 days after tagging. Only eight yellowfin tuna (out of 45) and one bigeye tuna (out of 12) visited FADs other than their FAD of release. Those nine fish tended to visit nearest neighboring FADs and, in general, spent more time at their FAD of release than at the others. Fish visiting the same FAD several times or visiting other FADs tended to stay longer in the FAD network. A majority of tagged fish exhibited some synchronicity when departing the FADs but not all tagged fish departed a FAD at the same time: small groups of tagged fish left together while others remained. We hypothesize that tuna (at an individual or collective level) consider local conditions around any given FAD to be representative of the environment on a larger scale (e.g., the entire island) and when those conditions become unfavorable the tuna move to a completely different area. Thus, while the anchored FADs surrounding the island of Oahu might concentrate fish and make them more vulnerable to fishing, at a meso-scale they might not entrain fish longer than if there were no (or very few) FADs in the area. At the existing FAD density, the 'Cyisland effect' is more likely to be responsible for the general presence of fish around the island than the FADs. We recommend further investigation of this hypothesis.

14/628: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/therelationshipofanchovyandsardinetowatermassesintheperuvianhumboldtcurrentsystemfromto> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : The relationship of anchovy and sardine to water masses in the Peruvian Humboldt Current System from 1983 to 2005
The Humboldt Current System (HCS) is dominated by two pelagic species; Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax). Using data from 43 acoustic surveys conducted from 1983 through 2005 by the Peruvian Marine Institute (IMARPE), we examined the distribution of these two species relative to water masses. We tested the hypothesis that anchovy was found more frequently in upwelled cold coastal water (CCW) and mixed waters (MCW) than in other water types and that sardine was more associated with more offshore oceanic surface subtropical water (SSW). Surface temperature, salinity, latitude, season and distance to the coast data were used to define water masses. Results using generalized additive models (GAM), modelling sardine and anchovy presence–absence as a function of year, water body, bottom depth and latitude, showed that anchovy were primarily found in CCW and MCS, while sardine were more ubiquitous relative to water masses with some predilection for SSW. These results were supported by various indexes of anchovy and sardine distribution versus water mass as well as temporal and location variables.

15/629: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/themesessionuonacoustictechniquesforthreedimensionalcharacterizationandclassificationofthepelagicecosystemu> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Theme Session U  on  Acoustic Techniques for Three-dimensional Characterization and Classification of the Pelagic Ecosystem (U)
BACKGROUND:
Comprehension of the three dimensional and dynamic features of pelagic marine ecosystems
is important for developing effective methodology to support ecosystem-based management of
marine resources. To achieve this goal, there is an increasing need for efficient tools to conserve
the ecosystem integrity when studying fish populations. Acoustic techniques are nonintrusive,
and may be used to look at aquatic ecosystems over a broad range of spatial and
temporal scales. Powerful 3D visualisation systems can be applied on 2D and 3D acoustic
devices to observe marine ecosystems with a new perspective.
The three-dimensional scales of aquatic ecosystems range from the smallest (centimetres) to
the widest areas (hundreds of nautical miles). Physical, chemical, and biological properties
show strong gradients (e.g. coast/offshore, north/south, high/low temperature) and complex
structures (e.g. fronts, eddies) along the vertical and the horizontal planes, forming specific
habitats for pelagic organisms. The improved understanding of the relation between the environmental
characteristics and the organisms, as well as their intra- and inter-specific interactions,
preserving the three-dimensional context where these interactions take place is important.
New technologies and approaches to efficiently collect, compute, display and validate
three-dimensional multivariate data on aquatic ecosystems are now available. This session
aims at presenting the current state of methodology for characterization and visualisation of
spatial and temporal dynamics in marine pelagic ecosystems while preserving the 3D spatial
context. Case study presenting applications and future potentials of these methodologies
would also be strongly appreciated in this session.

16/630: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/investigationofforaginghabitsandpreyselectionbyhumpbackwhalesmegapteranovaeangliaeusingacoustictagsandconcurrentfishsurveys> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Investigation of foraging habits and prey selection by humpback whales (Megaptera novaeangliae) using acoustic tags and concurrent fish surveys
Tags containing acoustic time-depth transmitters (ATDT) were attached to four humpback whales near Kodiak, Alaska. Tags allowed for whale dive depths to be recorded in real time. Acoustic and mid-water trawl surveys were conducted concurrent with tagging efforts within the study area to quantify available fish resources and describe potential prey selection by humpback whales. Recorded dives were grouped through visual assessment and t-tests. Dives that indicated likely foraging occurred at a mean maximum depth of 106.2 m with 62% of dives occurring between 92 m and 120 m. Acoustic backscatter from fish surveys was attributed to potential humpback prey based on known target strength values and 10 net tows. Capelin comprised 84% of the total potential prey abundance in the region followed by age 0 (12%) and juvenile pollock (2%), and eulachon (<1%). Although horizontally segregated in the region, both capelin and age 0 pollock were distributed at depths exceeding 92 m with maximum abundance between 107 m and 120 m. The four-tagged humpbacks were found to forage in areas with greatest capelin densities but bypassed areas of high age 0 pollock abundance. The location and diving behavior of tagged whales suggested that whales were favoring capelin over pollock as a prey source.

17/631: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/homingabilitiesofdolphinfishcoryphaenahippurusdisplacedfromfishaggregatingdevicesfadsdeterminedusingacoustictelemetry> : SCORE = 0.91553277
Doc : Homing abilities of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) displaced from fish aggregating devices (FADs) determined using acoustic telemetry
We conducted displacement experiments using acoustic tags to study the orientation abilities of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) around FADs. Eleven fish were passively monitored using coded transmitters and acoustic receivers attached to FADs, while seven others were actively tracked with a vessel using continuous acoustic tags equipped with pressure sensors. All these 18 dolphinfish were captured close to a FAD and released between 70 and 1720 m from it. Five fish out of the 14 that were displaced at more than 360 m from a FAD (estimated detection range of our acoustic receivers, defining the target area during our experiment) returned to the target area. With one individual successfully returning to the target area after having been released at 1600 m from the FAD, the rate of return of fish released up to this distance was significantly higher than expected if they were moving at random, but many fish released at intermediate distances moved in other directions. Based on detailed statistical analysis of the return score, we estimated that dolphinfish are able to orientate towards a FAD area from at least 820 m. The connection between our definition of the target area and the association area of dolphinfish around a FAD is discussed, as well as the impact of stress and motivation in the rates of return observed. More experiments should be conducted to improve this first estimate. Specific experiments should also be designed to more accurately determine the association range of fish around FADs and their motivation to orientate towards FADs.

18/632: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/levytrajectoriesofperuvianpurseseinersasanindicatorofthespatialdistributionofanchovyengraulisringens> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Levy trajectories of Peruvian purse-seiners as an indicator of the spatial distribution of anchovy (Engraulis ringens)
Analogous to other top predators foraging on patchy resources, the spatial behaviour of fishers provides information on the spatial organization of fish. Focusing on the Peruvian anchovy purse-seine fishery, vessel monitoring system data are used to describe fishing vessels' trajectories, and acoustic survey data to characterize anchovy spatial distribution. Vessel trajectories were analysed in terms of move-length distribution, whereas fish distribution was characterized by spatial extent, concentration, and fractal dimension. Fishers perform Levy flights that can be characterized by a single statistic (mu); mu is significantly correlated with the fractal dimension of fish distribution. It is argued that the Levy statistic is a good candidate for an ecosystem indicator that might contribute to realtime monitoring of ecosystems.

19/633: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hfradarobservationsofsurfacecirculationoffbodegabaynortherncaliforniausa> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : HF radar observations of surface circulation off Bodega Bay (northern California, USA)
[1] Two high-frequency radar stations (CODAR) were installed along the northern California coast in May 2001. Comparisons of radar data with acoustic Doppler current profiler ( ADCP) current data and near-surface drifter tracks indicate considerable agreement, with minimum RMS differences of order 0.05 - 0.15 m/s and average drifter-HF-radar track separation rates of 5 +/- 3 km/d. Radar data resolve the three main sources of intraseasonal current variability in the area: ( 1) upwelling/relaxation dynamics, ( 2) tidal and diurnal forcing, and ( 3) inertial currents. Subtidal fluctuations are the largest component of variability, accounting for 45 - 75% of the variance. Wind-driven dynamics are the dominant source of this subtidal variability (67% of subtidal variability). Both upwelling and relaxation periods exhibit consistent patterns of surface velocity, with nearshore currents being slower and more poleward than offshore currents, which are strongly equatorward. Analysis of tidal and inertial variability indicate that current fluctuations are polarized toward clockwise rotation and are generally weaker and more linearly polarized near the coast. M-2 tidal current ellipses switch direction of rotation at the shelf break, suggesting the presence of internal tidal waves. Currents in all frequency bands are deflected and accelerated around Pt. Reyes, and there are indications of increased current variability and changes in flow direction near Cordell Bank. The presence of considerable cross-shore and alongshore gradients in the strength and direction of surface flow patterns, and in particular weak poleward currents over the inner shelf, could have important consequences for plankton retention in the area.

20/634: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/schoolingbehaviourandenvironmentalforcinginrelationtoanchovetadistributionananalysisacrossmultiplespatialscales> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Schooling behaviour and environmental forcing in relation to anchoveta distribution: an analysis across multiple spatial scales
The Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) supports the highest worldwide fishery landings and varies in space and time over many scales. Here we present the first comprehensive sub-mesocale study of anchoveta distribution in relation to the environment. During November 2004, we conducted a behavioural ecology survey off central Peru and used a series of observational and sampling tools including SST and CO2 sensors, Niskin bottles, CTD probes, zooplankton sampling, stomach content analysis, echo-sounder, multibeam sonar, and bird observations. The sub-mesoscale survey areas were chosen from mesoscale acoustic surveys. A routine coast-wide (not, vert, similar2000 km) acoustic survey performed just after the sub-mesoscale surveys, provided information at an even larger population scale. The availability of nearly concurrent sub-mesoscale, mesoscale and coast-wide information on anchoveta distribution allowed for a unique multi-scale synthesis. At the sub-mesoscale (100s m to km) physical processes (internal waves and frontogenesis) concentrated plankton into patches and determined anchoveta spatial distribution. At the mesoscale (10s km) location relative to the zone of active upwelling (and age of the upwelled water) and the depth of the oxycline had strong impacts on the anchoveta. Finally, over 100s km the size of the productive area, as defined by the upwelled cold coastal waters, was the determining factor. We propose a conceptual view of the relative importance of social behaviour and environmental (biotic and abiotic) processes on the spatial distribution of anchoveta. Our ecological space has two y-axis; one based on self-organization (social behaviour), and the other based on the environmental processes. At scales from the individual (10s cm), to the nucleus (m), social behaviour (e.g. the need to school) drives spatial organization. At scales larger than the school, environmental forces are the main driver of fish distribution. The conceptual ecosystem models presented in this paper may provide the final links needed to develop accurate forecasts of the spatial distribution of anchoveta over multiple scales.

21/635: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ices> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : ICES
Small and large pelagic fish are known to aggregate around fish aggregating devices (FADs). One major question in this field is: can fish abundance around FADs be used as a proxy of the total fish abundance in the area? This issue was first addressed through acoustic observations on small pelagic fish in a bay of Reunion island (Western Indian Ocean). Twenty artificial structures such as moored buoys, artificial reefs, aquaculture cages, submarine shipwreck or fishing FADS, are scattered in the bay from 15 m to 50 m depth. We conducted 28 acoustic surveys during new moon periods from February 2003 to August 2006 in order to (1) characterize the effects of FADs on small pelagic fish distributions, (2) study if there is any relationship between the abundance of FAD-associated and non FAD-associated (free) shoals. The frequency histogram of the distance between fish shoals and the nearest FAD revealed a 150 m FAD influence on the distribution of shoals. This distance was applied to distinguish FAD-associated shoals (< 150 m) from free shoals (> 150 m). For these two types of shoal and for each survey, shoal densities (number of shoals by nautical miles) and acoustic and morphological descriptors were then computed. FAD-associated shoal densities were significantly related to free shoal densities, suggesting correlative evidence between both. However, the regression performed on acoustic and morphological descriptors did not show clear relationship. The potential of using densities of shoals around FADs as a proxy for total density in the area is discussed.

22/636: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howtorecognizethefishinthetreesmethodologicalreflectionsforthefishpopulationassessmentinanartificialreservoir> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : How to recognize the fish in the trees ? Methodological reflections for the fish population assessment in an artificial reservoir
Estimate the impact of the fishery pressure on a fish population is an important current goal for the research programs. The present work takes place in such a frame, applied to lacustrine environment. The experiments were performed in two contrasted Malian lakes, from the ex-ploitation point of view. Facing the difficulty to get historical series, an estimate of the tempo-ral evolution is appraised through the comparison of these two lakes which are at different fishery levels. The acoustic prospecting ran into difficulties which are specific to some conti-nental waters areas, where various types of vegetation are present. In these cases, fish like usually remaining hidden into these areas. After some experience, it becomes possible to clas-sify visually a large part of the echotraces; nevertheless it remains a part of subjectivity and the processing is fastidious. Statistical methods have therefore been tested in order to find keys to automate the processing. But even in the best case, the use of these keys depends a lot on the fish behaviour, which is very different from one lake to the other, with schooling fish in the more exploited reservoir, and dispersed fish in the other.

23/637: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleeddiesinfluencedistributionandaggregationpatternsofmicronektoninthemozambiquechannel> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Mesoscale eddies influence distribution and aggregation patterns of micronekton in the Mozambique Channel
Oceanic mesoscale circulation is a crucial structuring force for the marine environment. Dynamical processes associated with eddies such as eddy-induced upwelling or eddy-eddy interaction drive the transport and distribution of nutrients which support the whole food chain presumably through bottom-up processes. It has been largely documented that eddies can shape the distribution of both low (phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish larvae) and high trophic levels (top fish predators, seabirds or turtles) but the impact of mesoscale features on intermediate trophic levels (micronekton) remains poorly explored. In this work, we analysed the influence of eddies on the distribution of micronekton aggregations in the Mozambique Channel by combining acoustic data and satellite sea topography data. We demonstrated that large aggregations of micronekton occurred mainly in areas of high local horizontal gradient of sea level anomaly, i.e., at the periphery of eddies. We observed that eddies in the region, when running along the coast, advect at their edges coastal rich waters, which support the base of the trophic chain. We propose that eddies can shape the distribution and the aggregation patterns of the forage fauna of marine top predators through bottom-up processes.

24/638: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/revisitingperuviananchovyengraulisringenstrophodynamicsprovidesanewvisionofthehumboldtcurrentsystem> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Revisiting Peruvian anchovy (Engraulis ringens) trophodynamics provides a new vision of the Humboldt Current system
The Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) forages on plankton and is a main prey for marine mammals, seabirds, fish, and fishers, and is therefore a key element of the food web in the Humboldt Current system (HCS). Here, we present results from the analysis of 21,203 anchoveta stomach contents sampled during 23 acoustic surveys over the period 1996–2003. Prey items were identified to the genus level, and the relative dietary importance of different prey was assessed by determination of their carbon content. Variability in stomach fullness was examined relative to the diel cycle, the distance from the coast, sea surface temperature, and latitude, using generalized additive models (GAMs). Whereas phytoplankton largely dominated anchoveta diets in terms of numerical abundance and comprised >99% of ingested prey items, the carbon content of prey items indicated that zooplankton was by far the most important dietary component, with euphausiids contributing 67.5% of dietary carbon followed by copepods (26.3%). Stomach fullness data showed that anchoveta feed mainly during daytime between 07h00 and 18h00, although night-time feeding also made a substantial contribution to total food consumption. Stomach fullness also varied with latitude, distance from the coast, and temperature, but with substantial variability indicating a high degree of plasticity in anchoveta feeding behaviour. The results suggest an ecological role for anchoveta that challenges current understanding of its position in the foodweb, the functioning of the HCS, and trophic models of the HCS.
©2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

25/639: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/limitedmovementinbluerockfishsebastesmystinusinternalstructureofhomerange> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Limited movement in blue rockfish Sebastes mystinus: internal structure of home range
Home range has been estimated for a limited number of marine fishes; however, the use of space and timing of activities within the home range has rarely been studied. In addition, understanding movement patterns of exploited fish species has been identified as a crucial science gap, impeding informed marine reserve design. We used a radio-acoustic positioning telemetry (VRAP) system to monitor detailed movements of 10 blue rockfish Sebastes mystinus around shallow rock pinnacles and stands of bull kelp Nereocystis leutkeana in central California in September 2002, The mean home range was 8783 m(2) +/- 1137 SE; however, activity was highly concentrated in 1 to 3 core areas within each home range. Mean core areas measured 1350 m(2) 286 SE, but accounted for similar to 83 % of activity. All core areas were centered over rock pinnacles where rockfish were highly aggregated. Individuals exhibited high site fidelity and made only brief radial excursions away from these centers or moved directly from one pinnacle to the next along defined corridors. Patterns of diel activity and nocturnal sheltering corresponded closely with nautical twilight. Cores overlapped, but estimated locations of nocturnal shelters differed significantly among individuals. Movement patterns were correlated with wind velocity, upwelling index, water temperature and habitat structure.

26/640: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecologicalnichesandareasofoverlapofthesquatlobstermunidapleuroncodesmonodonandanchovetaengraulisringensoffperu> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Ecological niches and areas of overlap of the squat lobster 'munida' (Pleuroncodes monodon) and anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) off Peru
The world's largest mono-specific fishery, the Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) fishery, has been the subject of many studies since the 1960s. Details of its relationship with other species have mainly focused on alternations with sardine, Sardinops sagax, and little effort has so far been paid to interactions with other species sharing the same ecosystem. This is the case for Pleuroncodes monodon, the crustacean squat lobster or 'munida', which has become highly abundant along the Peruvian coast since the mid-1990s. Munida is now an important prey for seabirds, mammals and coastal predatory fish. Knowledge of patterns of distribution and ecological niche of munida is scarce however off Peru. Here we describe and compare spatial patterns of distribution of anchoveta and munida and their ecological niches based on data from 26 acoustic surveys performed along the Peruvian coast between 1998 and 2006. The results indicate that munida and anchoveta share ecological niches but that munida is restricted to the coldest part of the productive cold coastal waters whereas anchoveta do not present any temperature preference over a large range (14–23 °C). The recent increase in munida abundance off Peru is concomitant with colder conditions; with their onset munida extended its range from central Chile northwards. Off Peru the very shallow oxycline keeps munida from its usual bottom habitat and has forced it to adopt pelagic behaviour.

27/641: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acousticdatacollectedduringandbetweenbottomtrawlstationsconsistencyandcommontrends> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Acoustic data collected during and between bottom trawl stations: consistency and common trends
Acoustic data are often collected during bottom trawl surveys. Their use can potentially improve the precision and accuracy of fish abundance estimates if acoustic data collected between trawl stations are consistent with those collected during trawling operations. This question is addressed here through the analysis of 20 bottom trawl surveys (three survey areas and five different survey series) with coincident acoustic measurements during and between trawl stations. Firstly, on-station and underway acoustic data were compared using statistics computed globally over each survey (average vertical profiles, global indices of collocations, and spatial structures) for various combinations of depth layers. Secondly, we focussed on underway acoustic data recorded in the vicinity of stations, distinguishing between data recorded before and after the tows. On-station and underway acoustic data were highly consistent, and no systematic perturbation of the acoustic sign due to the presence of the gear a few hundred metres behind the vessel was observed.

28/642: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/towardanewprojectincliotopthemidtrophicautomaticacousticsamplermaas> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Toward a new project in CLIOTOP: the Mid-trophic Automatic Acoustic Sampler (MAAS)


29/643: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fadiofishaggregatingdevicesasintrumentedobservatoriesofpelagicecosystemsaeuropeanunionfundedprojectondevelopmentofnewobservationalinstrumentsandthebehavioroffisharoundfads> : SCORE = 0.62052256
Doc : FADIO (Fish Aggregating Devices as Intrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) : a European Union funded project on development of new observational instruments and the behavior of fish around FADs
Associative behavior is a major component of the life of pelagic fish. Tropical tuna and other
species are often found in association with floating objects, with other animals, and with topographic
features such as seamounts. Because fish are more abundant, occur in larger schools, or are easier to catch
when aggregated, fishermen extensively use these associations to increase their catches. More than 50%
of the world tuna catches are made from schools associated with floating objects.
There is a clear need for new technologies to study these associations and to propose innovative
methods of management. The European Union has funded a project to study the requirements of future
assessment tools and to develop prototypes. The project: FADIO1 (Fish Aggregating Devices as
Instrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) has conducted five extensive field surveys of the
Western Indian Ocean in conjunction with the large-scale purse seine fishery operating on drifting FADs
that operates in this region.
The objectives of FADIO are to develop new observation and assessment tools and collect data
on the behavior of pelagic fish around drifting FADs. Two categories of instruments are being developed
in collaboration with manufacturers: (1) autonomous buoys equipped with 360º sonar and cameras to
observe aggregations, acoustic receivers to detect individuals carrying electronic tags and satellite uplinks
for both, (2) new electronic tags with ecological sensors. Various field experiments are conducted to
assist in the development of these prototypes. During these scientific cruises, different instruments and
methods are used to document the behavior of associated species concurrently resident on the same FAD,
including: fishing and acoustic tagging, passive and active acoustic surveys, and underwater visual
census. Those observations, combined together, provide valuable insights in the dynamics of FAD
aggregations.
These instruments can be used in the future (i) to build the foundation for future observatories of
pelagic ecosystems, using FADs as scientific platforms for observation and data collection, (ii) to
understand the effects of FADs on tuna and other associated species, even in remote areas, (iii) to help
reducing by-catch around FADs. FADIO began in 2003 and will end in Oct. 2006, with an exposition and
workshop at the Oceanographic Museum in Monaco.

30/644: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/schoolingbehaviourofsmallpelagicfishphenotypicexpressionofindependentstimuli> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Schooling behaviour of small pelagic fish: phenotypic expression of independent stimuli
We compared echo sounder measurements of fish schools on Venezuelan and Senegalese coastal shelves. In both areas Sardinella aurita was the predominant aggregative species; the stocks are known to be genetically independent. Persistent school typology is described by analysing 7 acoustic surveys in Venezuela and comparing with pioneer observations in Senegal. The echo types encountered in both countries were comparable, with S. aurita and their associated species having comparable schooling behaviour. School morphology appears to be more related to species than to global characteristics of their ecosystems, as fish school descriptors were similar for both stocks. Nevertheless, S. aurita may adopt different school morphologies. Differentiation between day and night fish schools was mainly due to morphological variables, as determined by fractal dimension. Echo types were different between day and night in both Venezuela and Senegal. This analysis shows that several independent parameters can influence school morphology. However, although schooling behaviour is temporally highly variable, it shows several constant, typical 2D morphological structures, i.e. echo types. The observation of small pelagic fish schools occurring during the night is not unusual according to the literature, although a strict diurnal schooling behaviour, with scattering during the night, is often reported. Schooling behaviour appears to be a phenotypic expression depending on biotic and abiotic stimuli, intrinsic characteristics and motivation.

31/645: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multibeamsonardetectionofsuspendedmusselculturegroundsintheopenseadirectobservationmethodsformanagementpurposes> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Multibeam sonar detection of suspended mussel culture grounds in the open sea: Direct observation methods for management purposes
The exploitation of offshore mussel farms is becoming important throughout the world, but monitoring this activity remains a difficult task. Here, we propose a specific method for this purpose. A total of 140 long-lines were monitored on a mussel culture ground in the French Mediterranean Sea during four experimental surveys deploying multibeam sonar devices mounted on poles (Reson Seabat 6012, 455 kHz) on small boats. This allowed geo-referenced observations to be made of the submerged mussel long-lines, as well as three-dimensional (3D) drawings of the long-line structures and the sea bed shapes, using long-line longitudinal sonar sampling. Three sonar data-analysis methods were applied: (i) direct two-dimensional (2D) visual interpretation of raw sonar video images; (ii) indirect 2D long-line drawings; and (iii) 3D digital long-line reconstructions. The development of these acoustic methods in shallow water provides scientists, managers and local authorities with a tool for observing the 3D position (geographical position and depth) of mussel cultures, for counting each structure by the ‘long-line echo-counting' method, for monitoring their shape in situ, and for classifying the mussel rope segments into three growth categories (‘in growth', ‘full' and ‘empty'). The use of acoustic tools for monitoring underwater mussel culture grounds, for management purposes and for scientific studies, could be extended to other artificial structures in shallow water environments.

32/646: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fractaldimensionforquantifyingecosystemspatialpatternfromacousticandotherspatiallyexplicitdata> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Fractal dimension for quantifying ecosystem spatial pattern from acoustic and other spatially explicit data




732) Recherche du mot : Larosterna Inca (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/larosterna_inca)


733) Recherche du mot : Dusky shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_obscurus)


734) Recherche du mot : Marlín rayado (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_audax)


735) Recherche du mot : Thazard bâtard (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/acanthocybium_solandri)


736) Recherche du mot : ROV (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ROV)


737) Recherche du mot : Escolier gracile (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thyrsitoides_marleyi)


738) Recherche du mot : Macarelas nep (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/decapterus_sp)


739) Recherche du mot : Diaphus lucidus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diaphus_lucidus)


740) Recherche du mot : Maquereau espagnol (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_maculatus)


741) Recherche du mot : Albatun (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/albatun)


742) Recherche du mot : Carangoides malabaricus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carangoides_malabaricus)


743) Recherche du mot : Grimalditeuthis bonplandii (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/grimalditeuthis_bonplandi)


744) Recherche du mot : Mer Méditerranée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mediterranean_ecosystem)


745) Recherche du mot : Sterne Inca (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/larosterna_inca)


746) Recherche du mot : Pteroplatytrygon violacea préféré dans Worms!!! (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/dasyatis_violacea)


747) Recherche du mot : Enoploteuthidae sp1 (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/enoploteuthidae_sp1)


748) Recherche du mot : Océano (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ocean)
1/647: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabildelaflotadecercotropicaleneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Actualización de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil de la flota de cerco tropical en el océano Atlántico de 1980 a 2006.
En este documento se presenta una actualización del índice estandarizado de rabil adulto (>30 Kg.) de las flotas de cerco tropical en el océano Atlántico desde 1980 hasta 2006. Los datos utilizados provienen de los cuadernos de pesca por lance e información pormenorizada de la flota. La estandarización se ha realizado mediante modelos lineales generalizados (GLM) utilizando el método delta. De las estimaciones de los modelos glm se obtienen dos índices estandarizados: uno calculado a partir de las medias mínimo cuadráticas (LSMeans) y otro a partir de los promedios anuales de los valores ajustados. La variabilidad de este último es menor, por lo que, en este caso, es un índice más adecuado para su utilización en los modelos de evaluación. Como variables explicativas se han considerado el año, país, categoría, antigüedad del barco y la captura de listado, la otra especie objetivo de las flotas.



749) Recherche du mot : Espèce cible (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/target_species)


750) Recherche du mot : Amitié (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/amitie)


751) Recherche du mot : outil, engin... (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/tool)


752) Recherche du mot : Pieuvre (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/Octopus_vulgaris)


753) Recherche du mot : Identifiant sealifebase pour un taxon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/sealifebaseId)


754) Recherche du mot : éperon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/spur)


755) Recherche du mot : Voilier Atlantique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/istiophorus_albicans)


756) Recherche du mot : abyssal plain (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/abyssal_plain)


757) Recherche du mot : Projet Atlas Thonier (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/projectAtlasThonier)


758) Recherche du mot : longline (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/longline)
1/648: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialdistributionofcubicepspauciradiatusperciformesnomeidaeinthetropicalindianoceananditsimportanceinthedietoflargepelagicfishes> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Spatial distribution of Cubiceps pauciradiatus (Perciformes:Nomeidae) in the tropical Indian Ocean and its importance in the diet of large pelagic fishes
The bigeye cigarfish (Cubiceps pauciradiatus) is a small pelagic nomeid of the tropical world ocean, often recovered in the stomach contents of top predators such as tunas, billfishes and marine mammals. In the Indian Ocean, a few studies have investigated the biology and the ecology of this species that is one of the most abundant fish of the intermediate trophic levels. In this paper, we investigated the spatial distribution of C. pauciradiatus in the Indian Ocean using pelagic trawl catches carried out between 20°N and 45°S, and the importance of bigeye cigarfish in the diet of 9 piscivorous fishes sampled by different fishing gears in the western part of the Indian Ocean. The highest densities were observed along the eastern coast of Africa and in the Arabian Sea (87 000 individuals per square nautical mile) during the South-West Monsoon and in the eastern part of the Seychelles archipelago (62 200 ind. square nmi) during the North-East Monsoon. Small sized bigeye cigarfish (20–80 mm SL) was a regular and abundant prey (20 to 200 ind. per stomach) for schooling predators exploited by purse seine fishery such as large yellowfin and bigeye tunas chasing prey near the sea surface. Large sized bigeye cigarfish (61–150 mm SL) occurred in small numbers (3 to 20 ind. per stomach) in the stomach contents of swordfish and of large yellowfin and bigeye tunas caught by longline sets at great depths. Large concentrations of bigeye cigarfish occurred in zones of high productivity, and that species constituted seasonally a strong link in the transfer of energy from low to high trophic levels in this part of the Indian Ocean.

2/649: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hookingresponsesoftargetedandnontargetedspeciesobservedonpelagiclonglineusingcommonsaurysquidandlargebonitosbaitspreliminaryresultsfromfishingexperimentscarriedoutintheseychelleswaters> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Hooking responses of targeted and non targeted species observed on pelagic longline using common (saury, squid) and large (bonitos) baits : Preliminary results from fishing experiments carried out in the Seychelles waters.


3/650: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/whythenumberofhooksperbaskethpbisnotagoodproxyindicatorofthemaximumfishingdepthindriftinglonglinefisheries> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Why the number of hooks per basket (HPB) is not a good proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth in drifting longline fisheries?
The effects of targeting in longline fisheries have major impacts on CPUE (catch per unit effort). To target large pelagic fishes in longline fisheries, fishermen deployed several tactics according to the target species. For a given species, the tactic depends on both the season and the fishing ground. One of major aims of the fishing tactic is to set the longline for optimizing the overlap between the distribution of hook depths and the supposed preferential vertical habitat of the target species. Thus, the maximum fishing depth (MFD) of the longline is recognized as a key parameter for estimating the distribution of hook depths and then to standardize fishing effort. In this context, the number of hooks per basket (HPB) is commonly used as a proxy indicator of MFD (this information has been collected for the Japanese longline fishery since 1975). Unfortunately HPB is not a good proxy indicator of MFD. In the first part of this work we illustrate why our previous affirmation is consistent from a theoretical point of view. Second, we analyse depth series recorded with time depth recorders (TRDs) at the deepest point of the mainline (data collected during instrumented longline experiments carried out in the French Polynesia EEZ, central South Pacific). We observe variations of depths recorded during the soak time and we compare the calculated mean depth of depth series with the theoretical MFD (catenary formula). The mean depth appears as the better proxy indicator of the MFD which can be used to estimate the distribution of hook depths. Finally, we discuss relevant data which must be collected by both observers and fishermen in order to improve analysis of the fishing effort in longline fisheries. These data are crucial to standardize appropriately longline CPUE and to correct for potential bias. Statistical models (even the most sophisticated, such as habitat based model, GLM, GAM, GLMM or neural networks) could not supplant for the lack of such input information.

4/651: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climaticoscillationsandtunacatchratesintheindianoceanawaveletapproachtotimeseriesanalysis> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Climatic oscillations and tuna catch rates in the Indian Ocean: a wavelet approach to time series analysis
We analysed the influence of climatic oscillations
[based on the Indian Oscillation Index (IOI)] on
monthly catch rates of two tropical tuna species in
the equatorial Indian Ocean. We carried out wavelet
analysis, an efficient method of time series analysis
to study non-stationary data. Catch per unit of effort
(CPUE) of bigeye tuna was computed from Japanese
longline statistics from 1955 to 2002 in the equatorial
Indian Ocean and CPUE of yellowfin tuna
was derived from industrial purse seine statistics
from 1984 to 2003 in the Western Indian Ocean.
Wavelet analyses allowed us to quantify both the
pattern of variability in the time series and nonstationary
associations between tuna and climatic
signals. Phase analyses were carried out to investigate
dependency between the two signals. We
reported strong associations between tuna and
climate series for the 4- and 5-yr periodic modes, i.e.
the periodic band of the El Nin˜o Southern Oscillation
signal propagation in the Indian Ocean.
These associations were non-stationary, evidenced
from 1970 to 1990 for bigeye, and from 1984 to
1991 and then from 1993 to 2001 for yellowfin.
Warm episodes (low negative IOI values) matched
increases of longline catch rates of bigeye during the
1970–1990 time frame, whereas the strong 1997–
1998 warm event matched a decrease of purse seine
catch rates of yellowfin. We discussed these results
in terms of changes in catchability for purse seine
and longline.

5/652: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/opportunisticpredationintunaasizebasedapproach> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Opportunistic predation in tuna: a size-based approach
To test whether predation is an opportunistic size-based process within a tuna community, analyses were carried out on the size composition of stomach contents of bigeye tuna Thunnus obesus (Lowe, 1839) and yellowfin tuna T. albacares (Bonnaterre, 1788) caught in 1995 to 1997 during longline scientific surveys in the French Polynesian Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). Prey size distributions were compared with the size distribution of organisms collected by pelagic trawls carried out during the same programme. Relationships between prey size and predator size were studied using quantile regressions, and were related to tuna mouth-gape measurements. The results showed that mean and maximum sizes of prey increased with increasing predator size, and that maximum prey sizes (versus tuna size) were below those predicted by tuna mouth-gape size. Minimum prey size varied little with tuna size, and the size distributions of prey in tuna stomachs were very asymmetrical (lognormal type), confirming that during growth, tunas continue to feed on small prey. Comparison with previous studies on other piscivorous species from different ecosystems underlined that tunas feed on very small prey in relation to their own size. However, comparison of size distributions of prey in stomach contents and prey in pelagic trawls revealed that bigeye tuna select larger prey than yellowfin tuna when such prey are available.

6/653: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/regionalfeedingpatternsofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Regional feeding patterns of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) of the western Indian Ocean
The food composition of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox Lowe, 1833) was studied in two areas belonging to different biogeographic provinces of the western Indian Ocean: Indian Monsoon Gyres Province (MONS) and Indian South Subtropical Gyre Province (ISSG). A total of 158 lancetfish were sampled during two research longline cruises in 1986-1987: 50 within the MONS, from the western equatorial area (between the EEZs of Kenya and Seychelles) and 108 within the ISSG, from the northern part of the EEZ of Mauritius (Saya-de-Malha Bank – Agalega Islands area). In the equatorial area, 135 prey items (of 18 families or higher taxa) were found in the lancetfish stomachs. In the waters of Mauritius, 476 prey items of 53 taxa were recorded. Regional variability in the feeding habits reflects province-specific differences in the prey abundance and the structure of pelagic communities of the intermediate trophic levels. Large predatory crustaceans dominate in the waters of MONS, while they are absent in the poor waters of ISSG. Foraging success of the lancetfish on non-evasive prey was 3.2 times higher in the MONS than in the ISSG. In overall, swimming crab, Hyperiidea, conspecifics, barracudina, hatchetfish, hammerjaw, and Polychaeta were the predominant prey of the lancetfish. Great differences in the food composition of ‘small' (FL

7/654: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/pelagiclonglinefishingdepthconfrontingcatenarytheorydatawithdepthobservationsfrommonitoredlonglinefishingexperimentswp> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Pelagic longline fishing depth: Confronting catenary theory data with depth observations from monitored longline fishing experiments (WP5)
The aim of this paper is to ascertain the accuracy of hooks depth distribution estimated from the catenary theory model commonly used in CPUE standardization. From hook depth observations collected during monitored longline fishing experiments conducted in the central part of the South Pacific Ocean, we explore the effects of several environmental descriptors and variables describing gear configuration and fishing tactic on the longline shoaling (i.e., the difference between the observed and the theoretical maximum fishing depth). Our results showed that the shoaling (absolute and relative) can be significantly influenced by the current shear, the direction of the setting and the shape of the mainline (i.e., the tangential angle) which is the strongest and the most consistent predictor in GLMs. Some simple transformations are proposed to account for the non-linearity between the shoaling and the explanatory variables. As a consequence, our findings suggest that catenary maximum fishing depth estimates or the number of hooks per basket should be used with caution in methods addressed for CPUE standardization. In addition, we conclude by a discussion on how suitable data could be collected routinely on commercial fishing vessels in order to estimate the maximum fishing depth at the set operation level.

8/655: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/wherehavethetagsgonesimulationoftagssintagasimplemodeltoestimatethenumberandsizeoftunastaggedbytherttpiothatarecurrentlystillalive> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Where have the tags gone? SImulatioN of TAGs (SINTAG): A simple model to estimate the number and size of tunas tagged by the RTTP-IO that are currently still alive.
The large scale Regional Tuna Tagging Programme in the Indian Ocean (RTTP-IO) has reported a 14% return rate of the 168.000 tuna tagged between 2005 and 2007. Approximately 96% of these returns have been reported from the purse seine fishery. This has lead to speculation that the tagged tuna have not yet reached sizes at which they could be caught by longliners (bigeye and yellowfin) or by the baitboat fishery (skipjack) A simple exponential decay and growth model has, however, indicated that this may not be the case, and tagged individuals should be available to these fisheries. It would thus appear that tagged tuna are not being reported by the longline and baitboat fisheries and an effort should be made to increase the level of tag reporting in those fleets in order to maximise the usefulness of the data obtained from the RTTP-IO.

9/656: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparedresponsesofpurseseineandlonglinetunafisheriestoclimaticanomaliesintheindianocean> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Compared responses of purse seine and longline tuna fisheries to climatic anomalies in the Indian Ocean, 1980-2005


10/657: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/pelagiclonglinefishingdepthconfrontingcatenarytheorydatawithdepthobservationsfrommonitoredlonglinefishingexperiments> : SCORE = 2.316135
Doc : Pelagic longline fishing depth: Confronting catenary theory data with depth observations from monitored longline fishing experiments


11/658: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/reproductivedynamicsofswordfishxiphiasgladiusinthesouthwesternindianoceanreunionislandpartfecundityandspawningpattern> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean (Reunion Island). Part 2: fecundity and spawning pattern
Batch fecundity and relative fecundity of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean were estimated from seven gravid swordfish females (size range 127-225 cm lower jaw-to-fork length, LJFL) with unovulated, hydrated oocytes collected onboard Reunion-based (France) longline swordfish fishing vessels between December 1999 to January 2001. To investigate the spawning pattern of swordfish, we used data collected through a combination of two at sea sampling regimes. A total of 17 007 geo-located size data of swordfish were recorded during 8 years (1993-2001) and a total of 1727 (size range 75-289 cm, LJFL) swordfish gonads (1107 females and 620 males) were sampled from May 1998 to January 2001. The estimated batch fecundity ranged from 995 000 hydrated oocytes for the smallest ripe female to 4.3 millions for the largest female sampled measuring respectively 127 to 225 cm in curved length (LJFL). The relative fecundity ranged from 25 to 72 hydrated oocytes per gram of body weight. We found that batch fecundity was positively correlated with fish length and that the older/larger females have earlier and longer spawning seasons than younger/smaller females. These findings suggested that older/larger females which are seasonally migrating in this spawning ground seem to play a major role in reproductive success of the species in producing significantly more offspring than younger females during an extended spawning season. Examination of the length-frequency date from the fishery indicated that the young fish are resident around Reunion and around the seamounts off Reunion Island. Our results highlight the important role of the older/larger females in the reproductive capacity of southwestern Indian Ocean stock. We discuss the potential implications of fishing the older/larger females for this stock in terms of reproduction and recruitment..

12/659: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/commontrendsmodelincatchperunitofeffortforthetropicaltunas> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Common trends model in catch per unit of effort for the tropical tunas
We explored the usefulness of Dynamic factor analysis (DFA) to detect common patterns in the sets of CPUEs for Atlantic yellowfin (Thunnus albacores) and for eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), respectively. For yellowfin, the most appropriate model, in terms of AIC, identified two common trends. The 10 yellowfin CPUE series could be divided into 3 groups based on factor loadings. The grouping corresponds in part to the geographic location of the fisheries (i.e., the western Atlantic area for group 1 and the northeastern tropical Atlantic region for group 2). The fact that the first group is constituted by CPUEs obtained from 3 different fishing gears (pole and line, purse seine and longline), operating at different depth levels, suggests that the regional trend reflects more a sub-population response to a local exploitation rate than to environmental conditions. In light of the present results, the CPUEs should be combined respectively into two regional indices before performing a unique combined index. For skipjack, results are less conclusive and further studies with explanatory factors are required to account for the fact that this species is seldom targeted by the tuna fisheries.

13/660: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/historicaldatabaseonsoviettunalonglinetunaresearchintheindianandatlanticoceansfirstresultsofyugnironmfsdatarescueproject> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Historical database on Soviet tuna longline tuna research in the Indian and Atlantic oceans (first results of YugNIRO-NMFS data rescue project)
YugNIRO (formerly AzCherNIRO, till 1988), Kerch, Ukraine started tuna research in the Indian Ocean in early 1960-ies and such studies continued till early 1990-ies. For research purposes medium-sized fishing trawlers converted for pelagic longlining were used. Recent data inventory accounted about 130 research, searching, and fishing pelagic longline cruises for 1961-1989 targeted tunas (generally Thunnus), billfishes (Makaira, Tetrapturus, Xiphias gladius), pelagic sharks (Carcharhinus, Isurus, Alopias, Prionace glauca, Galeocerdo cuvier). Other pelagic species were recorded as bycatch. More than 5200 longline sets with about 2.5 millions nominal hooks were shot. For every research cruise the following data were colleted on set by set basis: number of hooks, hooks distribution by depth, total catch, and catch by species. Almost all the fish caught were measured, weighed, and analyzed. Estimated catch depth of every fish was recorded. Environmental data and MBT station data generally available. Due to lack of computer equipment and limited funding throughout years of data sampling this valuable data were stored on paper as logbooks of longline catches and biological analysis. In spite the careful treatment by YugNIRO personnel, there were a danger of loss for these unique data due to natural deterioration of media under time impact, accidents, natural disasters, other extraordinary situations, etc. In late 2002 under support of NMFS and NFWF data “rescue” project which principal goals were preparation of computer database and make this data available for joint YugNIRO/SWFSC analysis and for IOTC and ICCAT was started. “Rescue” is carried out by digitizing of the data, which exist only as manuscripts, in order to store them on computer media in the form of relational database. This project is at the final stage at presents, since most of the data available are in the digital form. These data represent unique dataset for Indian Ocean which could be used as an independent long-term biological and fisheries database as well as additional information to databases of IPTP/IOTC and national databases of other research center. Data and database description, database structure, first results of the database creation, data digitizing, and analyses, and potential access to the data is presented in this paper.

14/661: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofyellowfinthunnusalbacarestunastocksfisheriesandstockstatusworldwide> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : An overview of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) tuna stocks, fisheries and stock status worldwide
This paper makes a comparison of yellowfin
stocks worldwide, taking into account the biology of the
species as estimated in each ocean and the changes and
trends in the yellowfin fisheries observed in each ocean. This
paper presents and discusses a wide range of data and
figures comparing yellowfin stocks and fisheries in the four
« oceans », namely the Atlantic, Indian, Eastern and Western
Pacific. It shows an overview of the changes observed in each
ocean for the main yellowfin fisheries, longliners and purse
seiners: sizes of area fished, CPUE, changes in size
distribution and average weights, etc. The major biological
parameters estimated in each ocean by scientists, such as
natural mortality at age, spawning, sex ratio and growth are
presented and discussed. The methods used to assess
yellowfin stocks and the methodological uncertainties in the
yellowfin stock assessment are compared and discussed. The
conclusion is that it remains difficult to fully understand if the
increased catches of yellowfin observed world wide in most
oceans should be explained (1) by the effects of increasing
fishing zones, (2) by increased fishing effort and/or increased
fishing efficiency (3) and/or by increased biological productivity
of oceans or by a combination of these parameters. The
serious uncertainty in the understanding of the real
relationship between the longline and purse seine fisheries are
also discussed.

15/662: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/madepreliminaryinformationonanewecprojecttoproposemeasurestomitigateadverseimpactsofopenoceanfisheriestargetinglargepelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : MADE: preliminary information on a new EC project to propose measures to mitigate adverse impacts of open ocean fisheries targeting large pelagic fish
A particular attention has been paid worldwide on longline fisheries as they catch considerable amount of by-catch (seabirds, turtles, sharks, etc.). Seabird and turtles by-catch mitigation methods have now been established in many fisheries worldwide, but similar efforts must be put to reduce by-catch of sharks. In the same ecosystems, another issue attracts the attention of international tuna commissions: the use of drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs). These FADs are responsible for major catches of juvenile tuna and non target pelagic species (sharks). Finally, the effects of thousands of FADs released regularly in the tropical oceans are unknown, and must be studied to estimate if they impact the biology of pelagic species. The European open ocean tropical and Mediterranean pelagic fishery (Spain, France, Portugal, Italy, Greece) is one of the main sources of catch, income and employment for the European fishery, with interactions with many developing countries. The MADE project was set up to develop measures to mitigate adverse impacts of fisheries targeting large pelagic fish in the open ocean: purse seiners using FADs and longliners. This 4-year project, started in mid-2008 within the 7th EC Framework Programme, and is a cooperative research carried out under the coordination of IRD, including 13 scientific institutions belonging to 6 European Countries and 2 ICPC countries in three different areas (Mediterranean Sea, Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean). Two main categories of mitigation measures will be studied: spatial management issues (e.g. closure areas) and technical solutions to reduce by-catch in these fisheries. The main concept of MADE is to follow a multi-disciplinary and comparative approach, combining biological and technological studies with economical analyses in different sites (Indian and Atlantic oceans, Mediterranean Sea), with a particular effort to closely associate fishers.

16/663: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/effectsofthegeardeploymentstrategyandcurrentshearonpelagiclonglineshoaling> : SCORE = 1.1882102
Doc : Effects of the gear deployment strategy and current shear on pelagic longline shoaling
Historical longline catch per unit effort (CPUE) constitutes the major time series used in tuna stock assessment to followthe trend in abundance since the beginning of the large-scale tuna fisheries. The efficiency and species composition of a longline fishing operations essentially depends on the overlap in the vertical and spatial distribution between hooks and species habitat. Longline catchability depends on the vertical distribution of hooks and the aim of our paper was to analyse principal factors affecting the deviation of observed longline hook depths from predicted values. Since observed hook depth is usually shallower than predicted, this deviation is called longline shoaling.We evaluate the accuracy of hook depth distribution estimated from a theoretical catenary model commonly used in longline CPUE standardizations. Temperature-depth recorders (TDRs) were deployed on baskets of a monitored longline. Mainline shapes and maximum fishing depths were similar to gear configurations commonly used to target both yellowfin and bigeye tuna by commercial longliners in the central part of the South Pacific Ocean. Our working hypothesis assumes that the maximum fishing depth reached by the mainline depends on the gear configuration (sag ratio, mainline length per basket), the fishing tactics (bearing of the setting) and environmental variables characterizing water mass dynamics (wind stress, current velocity and shear). Based on generalized additive models (GAMs) simple transformations are proposed to account for the non-linearity between the shoaling and explanatory variables. Then, generalized linear models (GLMs) were fit to model the effects of explanatory variables on the longline shoaling. Results indicated that the shoaling (absolute aswell as relative) was significantly influenced by (1) the shape of the mainline (i.e., the tangential angle), which is the strongest predictor, and (2) the current shear and the direction of setting. Geometric forcing (i.e. transverse versus in-line) between the environment and the longline set is shown for the first time from in situ experimental fishing data. Results suggest that a catenary model that does not take these factors into consideration provides a biased estimate of the vertical distribution of hooks and must be used with caution in CPUEs standardization methods. Since catchability varies in time and space we discuss how suitable data could be routinely collected onboard commercial fishing vessels in order to estimate longline catchability for stock assessments.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved..

17/664: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/timeseriesanalysisoftunaandswordfishcatchesandclimatevariabilityintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Time series analysis of tuna and swordfish catches and climate variability in the Indian Ocean (1968-2003)
We analysed the patterns of variation that characterize 33 catch time series of large pelagic fishes exploited by the Japanese and Taiwanese longline fisheries in the Indian Ocean from 1968 to 2003. We selected four species, the yellowfin (Thunnus albacares), the bigeye (T. obesus), the albacore (T. alalunga), and the swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and aggregated data into five biogeographic provinces of Longhurst (2001).We carried out wavelet analyses, an efficient method to study non-stationary time series, in order to get the time-scale patterns of each signals. We then compared and grouped the different wavelet spectra using a multivariate analysis to identify the factors (species, province or fleet) that may influence their clustering. We also investigated the associations between catch time series and a large-scale climatic index, the DipoleMode Index (DMI), using cross wavelet analyses. Our results evidenced that the geographical province is more important than the species level when analyzing the 33 catch time series in the tropical Indian Ocean. The DMI further impacted the variability of tuna and swordfish catch time series at several periodic bands and at different temporal locations, and we demonstrated that the geographic locations modulated its impact.We discussed the consistency of time series fluctuations that reflect embedded information and complex interactions between biological processes, fishing strategies and environmental variability at different scales.

18/665: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/esessioniotc> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : 8e session IOTC
The number of hooks between floats (HBF) is classically considered in standardization studies of the longline fishing effort as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. The explanation of this choice is easy for understanding : an increase of the HBF (then an increase of the length of the mainline between floats represents a increase in fishing depths. Probably, this relationship has been valid for traditional longlines until the end of eighties. However, the modernization of the fishing gear (monofilament mainline, shooter, snaps) has considerably modified the tradition and has led to a wide diversification of setting tactics. As a related consequence of this modernization, HBF has lost his property as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. In this work, we show briefly why the relationship between HPB and the maximum fishing depth is artificial. This hypothesis is supported from a comparative analysis of temporal series of the average HBF and the weight contribution of albacore and bigeye in catches. This fact underlines the problem of the use of HBF in the frame of the measure of the effective fishing effort in longline fisheries (GLM approach). In this context, the necessity of additional information characterizing longlining strategies is discussed.

19/666: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.

20/667: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/reproductivedynamicsofswordfishxiphiasgladiusinthesouthwesternindianoceanreunionislandpartoocytedevelopmentsexualmaturityandspawning> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean (Reunion Island). Part 1: oocyte development, sexual maturity and spawning
The reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) was investigated from catches of the Reunion Island-based longline swordfish fishery between 19-25 degrees S and 48-54 degrees E. Thus, 1727 swordfish (size range 75-289 cm, lower jaw-to-fork length, LJFL) were sampled on board commercial fishing vessels during the period of May 1998 to January 2001. Reproductive activity was assessed using macroscopic gonad characteristics, trends of gonadal indexes for both sexes, oocyte size-frequency distributions and microscopic investigation of oocyte development stages. Size at first maturity (L-50) for female and male swordfish was estimated in Indian Ocean for the first time. L50 was estimated at 170 cm and 120 cm (LJFL) for females and males, respectively. Spawning occurred from October to April in the vicinity of Reunion Island where sex ratio of caught populations fluctuated seasonally. The seasonal changes in sex ratio and the incidence of larger individuals at the beginning of the spawning season provide some preliminary indications of synchronized movements of swordfish between spawning grounds and neighboring regions. Our results add significantly to knowledge about the reproductive biology of swordfish in the southwestern Indian Ocean. An overview of the available information on reproductive biology and dynamics of swordfish in Indian Ocean and eastern Pacific indicated that spawning activity is localized in discrete areas, and showed that there is incomplete information on spawning grounds in this extended area.



759) Recherche du mot : estuary (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/estuary)
1/668: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fluctuatingasymmetryinfishotolithsandheterozygosityinstressfulestuarineenvironmentswestafrica> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Fluctuating asymmetry in fish otoliths and heterozygosity in stressful estuarine environments (West Africa)
Fluctuating asymmetry (FA) is assumed to reflect the developmental instability caused by environmental or genetic stress. Fish otoliths represent a very good tool for investigating the consequence of different effects on FA. Otolith FA analysis, coupled with genetic analysis, has been undertaken on two common West African estuarine species, Ethmalosa fimbriata (EFI) and Sarotherodon melanotheron (SME), in two neighbouring estuaries, in order to highlight the impact of salinity on developmental stability. The Gambia estuary has a normal functioning and the Saloum estuary is inverse (saltier waters in the upper river), reaching extremely high salinities (>100 psu) and constituting severe environmental stress. Five sub-populations of EFI and six of SME were studied along a salinity gradient. The differences between right and left otoliths were estimated with image processing by measuring five dimensions (area, perimeter, diameter, rostrum and posterior radii). Analyses of genetic differentiation at three EPIC and one anonymous nuclear gene loci for EFI and six polymorphic enzymatic loci for SME were carried out to measure the level of heterozygosity. Absolute FA in all otolith traits examined was unaffected by gender but increased significantly with fish size. Size-corrected absolute FA did not show any significant difference among sites differing largely in salinity, although a higher asymmetry in otolith area was recorded in the saltiest site. These findings suggest that otolith asymmetry is a poor indicator of osmotic stress. The individual heterozygosity level did not seem to have an effect on otolith FA for either species, even though a slight correlation appeared with otolith area or perimeter. Otolith FA cannot be considered to be a useful indicator for estimating changes linked with environmental or genetic stress in these estuaries.

2/669: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/relationshipsbetweenbenthicmacrofaunaandhabitatsuitabilityforjuvenilecommonsolesoleasolealinthevilaineestuarybayofbiscayfrancenurseryground> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Relationships between benthic macrofauna and habitat suitability for juvenile common sole (Solea solea, L.) in the Vilaine estuary (Bay of Biscay, France) nursery ground
Coastal and estuarine systems are among the most threatened by human activities which damage their ecological function and, in particular, their nursery role for many marine species. In this context, the protection of these vital ecosystems is a critical issue for the management of fisheries resources. To that aim, functional approaches have to be developed that make it possible to assess habitat suitability and quality. The common sole, Solea solea (L.) was selected as an indicator species to identify the features of coastal and estuarine nursery habitats in the Bay of Biscay (France). Previous studies have shown that young-of-the-year (YOY) sole are strongly dependent upon various abiotic factors, and especially bathymetry, sediment cover and the extent of river plumes. We investigated whether taking into account biological variables, based on benthic macrofauna biomasses aggregated into trophic group, may improve the description of the juvenile sole distribution in the Vilaine estuary nursery. Results from Generalised Linear Models demonstrated the importance of integrating these biological variables in the determination of juvenile habitats at a local scale. The abundance of YOY sole was correlated with an index of the benthic invertebrates biomass and, more specifically, with the biomass of suspension feeders. This result was reinforced by a one-dimensional spatial statistical analysis, which pointed out the similar distribution of invertebrate macrobenthos and juvenile sole along the upstream/downstream gradient of the estuary. Moreover, the inter-annual variations of abundance and distribution of juveniles were synchronous with those of the macrobenthos.

3/670: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thermalandtrophichabitatsoftheleatherbackturtleduringthenestingseasoninfrenchguiana> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Thermal and trophic habitats of the leatherback turtle during the nesting season in French Guiana
Understanding environmental cues determining behaviour and habitat use of species of conservation
concern is crucial if one aims at implementing sustainable management of these natural resources. In this
way, here, we investigate the thermal and trophic conditions encountered by the critically endangered
leatherback sea turtle Dermochelys coriacea during its nesting season in French Guiana where high bycatch
rates have been reported.
Mean sea water temperatures obtained in situ by animal-borne recorders were 26.6±0.7 °C in the water
column, with all but one turtle remaining in water N25 °C during the inter-nesting interval. In terms of prey
availability, regular jellyfish stranding events were recorded during the nesting season, on a 1.25-km long
section of the nesting beach. The occurrence of jellyfish was supported by benthic trawls performed on the
continental shelf, with a total of 45.4 kg of jellyfish collected in 3.5 h exclusively in coastal waters 10 to 20 m
deep where water transparency was between 0.8 and 3 m. This is consistent with the at sea distribution area
of gravid leatherbacks during their inter-nesting intervals, as they spent almost 70% of their time diving in
shallow (b20 m deep) waters in front of the Maroni River estuary. In French Guiana, leatherback's gelatinous
prey are thus present in very shallow water close to the nesting site and may be easily exploited by active
gravid leatherbacks. This suggests that French Guiana female leatherbacks may be influenced by local trophic
conditions and actively prospect productive areas overlapping with local fisheries ground.

4/671: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thegambiariverestuaryareferencepointforestuarinefishassemblagesstudiesinwestafrica> : SCORE = 1.1329141
Doc : The Gambia River Estuary: a reference point for estuarine fish assemblages studies in West Africa
The Gambia River is one of the last aquatic ecosystems in West Africa that has not yet been affected by strong environmental changes and human disturbances. In contrast to the neighbouring Casamance and Sine Saloum estuaries, the Gambia estuary is free of major climatic perturbation and remains a “normal” estuary, with a salinity range from freshwater to 39. The present paper aims to study the spatial and seasonal variability of fish assemblages in this estuary in terms of bio-ecological categories and of their relation with some environmental variables. Four surveys were conducted, from June 2001 to April 2002, in order to cover the major hydroclimatic events, at 44 sampling sites along the lower, intermediate and upper zones of the Gambia estuary (up to 220 km). Fish assemblages were sampled using a purse seine net, fish were identified to species level and environmental variables such as water depth, transparency, salinity, temperature and percentage oxygen saturation were measured. The main spatial structure of the fish assemblages and its seasonal changes were first studied using the STATIS-CoA multitable method. The combination of fish assemblages and environmental variables was then analysed using the STATICO method, designed for the simultaneous analysis of paired ecological tables. A total of 67 species were observed, belonging to all bio-ecological categories characterizing West African estuaries. The marine component of the community was largely dominant throughout the estuary, while the freshwater component was permanently observed only in the upstream zone. The main spatial structure was a longitudinal gradient contrasting marine and freshwater affinity assemblages, with strong seasonal variations. The most complete gradient was observed in December, at the beginning of the dry and cool season, while in June, at the end of the dry and warm season, there was the least structured gradient. The role of salinity, always correlated with temperature, was emphasized, while turbidity appeared to be another important factor. Oxygen and depth did not play a major role at the estuary scale. The relative importance of the bio-ecological categories varied according to the season and the distance to sea. Stable fish assemblages were observed in the lower zone at the end of the dry season, in the upper zone during the flood and in the middle zone throughout the year. In some situations, a relative inadequacy between fish assemblages and their environment was noticed. The present study contributes to the definition of the functioning of a “normal” West African estuary, the Gambia estuary, with balanced effects of marine and freshwater influences and the presence of all bio-ecological categories. The Gambia estuary can therefore be considered to be a reference ecosystem for further comparisons with other tropical estuarine ecosystems, subjected to natural or artificial perturbations.

5/672: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialversustemporalpatternsinfishassemblagesofatropicalestuarinecoastallaketheebrielagoonivorycoast> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Spatial versus temporal patterns in fish assemblages of a tropical estuarine coastal lake: The Ebrié Lagoon (Ivory Coast)
The fish assemblages of the Ebrié lagoon (Ivory Coast) were sampled by experimental fishing over the entire lagoon using a purse seine net. The sampling was conducted in the two main hydroclimatic seasons for this ecosystem, i.e. in the dry season (March-April) and in the wet season (August-September). The results obtained showed a fish assemblage organized around a consistently occurring group of twenty species. When analysed in terms of ecological categories, the seasonal influence led to a cycle in the assemblages from freshwater to marine around this permanent species pool, with a seasonal renewal of the assemblage. At the scale of the lagoon, there were variations in the composition of the assemblages that clearly distinguished the western part from the eastern one. The limit was situated at the Vridi canal, a wide artificial channel permanently connecting the lagoon to the sea. To the west, the assemblage was characterised by a strong spatial uniformity and low seasonal variability. To the east, the assemblage formed two different entities; one assemblage with pronounced freshwater affinities occurring in a side arm and the other assemblage with great seasonal variability under the alternating influence of seawater in the dry season and freshwater in the wet season. This part of the lagoon functioned somewhat like a typical estuary.



760) Recherche du mot : Charybdis edwardsi (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/charybdis_smithii)


761) Recherche du mot : General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/groupGFCM)


762) Recherche du mot : Sphyraena acutipinnis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyraena_acutipinnis)


763) Recherche du mot : engine (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/machine)


764) Recherche du mot : Istiophoridae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/istiophoridae)


765) Recherche du mot : is prey of (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/is_prey_of)


766) Recherche du mot : Requin océanique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_longimanus)


767) Recherche du mot : FAO identifier for a taxon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/faoLatinName)


768) Recherche du mot : Country (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/country)
1/673: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabiladultothunnusalbacaresdelaflotadecercotropicaleuropeaeneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Actualizacion de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil adulto (thunnus albacares) de la flota de cerco tropical europea en el oceano atlantico de 1980 a 2006
This document presents a standardized index update of adult yellowfin (>30 kg) of tropical purse seine fleets in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006. The data used were taken from spear fishing logbooks and detailed information of the fleet. The standardization has been carried out by generalized linear models (GLM) using the delta model. The standardized indices are obtained from the GLM model estimations: one is calculated from the least squares means (LSMeans) and another from the annual averages of the adjusted values. The variability of the latter is lower. Therefore, in this case, it is a more adequate index to be used in assessment models. The year, country, category, age of vessel and catches of skipjack tuna, which is the other target species of these fleets, were considered as explanatory variables.

2/674: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteontheyearlycatchesbycountryandgearofthefismfranceivorycoastsenegalmoroccofleetduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Note on the yearly catches by country and gear of the FISM (France - Ivory Coast - Senegal - Morocco) fleet during the 1969-1990 period
The current ICCAT Task 1 statistics database does not include any record of catch for Senegal and Ivory Coast during the period 1969-1990 as these data were historically included in the aggregated catch data of the so-called “FISM” fleet under the flag ‘EC.France'. Landing and logbook data were used to reallocate the FISM fleet catch between countries. This analysis shows the need to clarify the Task 1 ICCAT statistics by country and historic gear, and ask France, Ivory Coast and Senegal to declare their respective catch during 1969-1990. This change in the ICCAT database will not affect the total catch of Task 1 statistics.

3/675: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/standardizedcpueforjuvenileyellowfinskipjackandbigeyetunafromtheeuropeanpurseseinefleetintheatlanticoceanfromto> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Standardized CPUE for juvenile yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tunafrom the european purse seine fleet in the atlantic ocean from 1991 to 2006
In this document three abundance indices are obtained for the juveniles of tropical tunas (yellowfin (≤30Kg.), skipjack and bigeye of European purse seine fishery in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006 using generalized linear models (delta-lognormal model). Catch and effort data come from detailed daily logbooks. Catch rates are modelled using the delta lognormal model. The method estimates a combined CPUE of the three species from aggregated catches, and the proportion of catches for each species, so the final individual abundance indices are calculated multiplying both estimators for each species. Explanatory variables used in the analysis are: year, zone, quarter, harvest capacity, country, and starting date of the vessel. Year and zone are the most explanatory factors of variability in CPUEs and vessel characteristics have a minor explanatory effect in observed catch rates.



769) Recherche du mot : Intertuna 3 (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/intertuna_tres)


770) Recherche du mot : capteur (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/sensor)


771) Recherche du mot : trawl (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/trawl)
1/676: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usingamarkovtypemodeltocombinetrawlandacousticdatainfishsurveys> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Using a Markov-type model to combine trawl and acoustic data in fish surveys


2/677: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/workshoponmappingandgeostatisticalmethodsforfisheriesstockassessment> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Workshop on Mapping and Geostatistical Methods for Fisheries Stock Assessment
The NAFO Scientific Council Special Session of September 2003 was the Workshop on Mapping and Geostatistical Methods for Fisheries Stock Assessment. The objective of the workshop was to provide participants with the basic understanding of geostatistical conceptes and methods, and provide tools to apply this knowledge to fisheries stock assessments. The instructors introduced freeware mapping and geostatistical software. Two sets of data were used for the lessons and demonstrations: the Canadian spring bottom trawl survey data from 1996 to 2002, and information from the yellowtail flounder commercial fishery on the Grand Bank from 1996 to 2002. The visualization, analysis and modeling of spatial data using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) were presented (e.g. Ocean Data View (ODV freeware), SPAN (Spatial Analysis System) and ACON (A CONtouring package). Surface (map) generating techniques were demonstrated using the various software packges. Geostatistical concepts and methods related to kriging, and methods for analyses using basics of the "R" software package were described.

3/678: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/assessingtheimpactoffisheriesondemersalfishassemblagesofthemauritaniancontinentalshelfusingdominancecurves> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Assessing the impact of fisheries on demersal fish assemblages of the Mauritanian continental shelf, 1987–1999, using dominance curves
The assemblages of demersal fish and associated species of the Mauritanian continental
shelf are characterized on the basis of annual trawl surveys conducted during the period
1987e1999. Species composition is dominated by exploited species (Dentex spp., Pagellus
bellottii, and Octopus vulgaris). Dominance curves (Abundance Biomass Comparison
plots) were used to evaluate the impact of fisheries, which have increased in magnitude over
several decades. The diagnosis of a ‘‘stressed'' assemblage seems to converge with the
results of a similar study conducted off Senegal, but here there was no trend in impact
during the period of study. The sensitivity of the present results to the various ways of
considering the available taxonomic information is also analysed.

4/679: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/indicesforcapturingspatialpatternsandtheirevolutionintimewithapplicationtoeuropeanhakemerlucciusmerlucciusinthebayofbiscay> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Indices for capturing spatial patterns and their evolution in time, with application to European hake (Merluccius merluccius) in the Bay of Biscay
A series of candidate statistical indices is used in an attempt to capture spatial patterns of fish populations from research survey data. To handle diffuse population limits, indices are designed not to depend on arbitrary delineation of the domain. They characterize the location (centre of gravity and spatial patches), the occupation of space (inertia, isotropy, positive area, spreading area, and equivalent area), statistical dispersion (Gini index and coefficient of variation of strictly positive densities), and microstructure. Collocation between different ages and years is summarized by a global index of collocation. Indices are estimated for hake from a bottom-trawl data series in the Bay of Biscay in autumn of 1987-2004. The study provides a detailed description of the spatial patterns of different hake age groups, age 3 appearing to be a turning point in these dynamics. Capturing spatial patterns through indices allows the comparison of surveyed populations and identification of trends and outliers in the time-series. Spatial indices are used in a multivariate approach to obtain an overview of the relationships between the different spatial indices characterizing the spatial behaviour of six age groups of hake, and to assess their persistence through time.

5/680: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialdistributionofcubicepspauciradiatusperciformesnomeidaeinthetropicalindianoceananditsimportanceinthedietoflargepelagicfishes> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Spatial distribution of Cubiceps pauciradiatus (Perciformes:Nomeidae) in the tropical Indian Ocean and its importance in the diet of large pelagic fishes
The bigeye cigarfish (Cubiceps pauciradiatus) is a small pelagic nomeid of the tropical world ocean, often recovered in the stomach contents of top predators such as tunas, billfishes and marine mammals. In the Indian Ocean, a few studies have investigated the biology and the ecology of this species that is one of the most abundant fish of the intermediate trophic levels. In this paper, we investigated the spatial distribution of C. pauciradiatus in the Indian Ocean using pelagic trawl catches carried out between 20°N and 45°S, and the importance of bigeye cigarfish in the diet of 9 piscivorous fishes sampled by different fishing gears in the western part of the Indian Ocean. The highest densities were observed along the eastern coast of Africa and in the Arabian Sea (87 000 individuals per square nautical mile) during the South-West Monsoon and in the eastern part of the Seychelles archipelago (62 200 ind. square nmi) during the North-East Monsoon. Small sized bigeye cigarfish (20–80 mm SL) was a regular and abundant prey (20 to 200 ind. per stomach) for schooling predators exploited by purse seine fishery such as large yellowfin and bigeye tunas chasing prey near the sea surface. Large sized bigeye cigarfish (61–150 mm SL) occurred in small numbers (3 to 20 ind. per stomach) in the stomach contents of swordfish and of large yellowfin and bigeye tunas caught by longline sets at great depths. Large concentrations of bigeye cigarfish occurred in zones of high productivity, and that species constituted seasonally a strong link in the transfer of energy from low to high trophic levels in this part of the Indian Ocean.

6/681: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialconsiderationsforthedakhlastockofoctopusvulgarisindicatorspatternsandfisheriesinteractions> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Spatial considerations for the Dakhla stock of Octopus vulgaris: indicators, patterns and fisheries interactions
The common octopus (Octopus vulgaris) is the target species of the cephalopod fishery that exploits two stocks, Dakhla and Cap Blanc, off southern Morocco (26 degrees N 21 degrees N), an area commonly referred to as the Saharan Bank. Octopus vulgaris is also one of the most abundant demersal species in this highly productive area, and plays a key role in the upwelling ecosystem. Spatial patterns of the main phases of the octopus vulgaris life cycle of the Dakhla stock are described, using trawl surveys carried out twice a year from 1998 to 2003. Using geostatistics and spatial indicators, mature females and juveniles are analysed and mapped to characterize the main features of the spawning and recruitment phases. There are clear distinctions between the spatial patterns of the spawning and recruitment phases: juveniles are more coastal, less spatially dispersed, more anisotropically distributed, and more patchy. Our results suggest that the spatial pattern of the Octopus vulgaris Dakhla stock is different from that of the same species in other ecosystems such as the Mediterranean. GIS reveals that the spawning-stock biomass is globally more accessible to the industrial fleet than to the artisanal one, a finding contrary to contemporary thinking and with important resource management implications.

7/682: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/investigationofforaginghabitsandpreyselectionbyhumpbackwhalesmegapteranovaeangliaeusingacoustictagsandconcurrentfishsurveys> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Investigation of foraging habits and prey selection by humpback whales (Megaptera novaeangliae) using acoustic tags and concurrent fish surveys
Tags containing acoustic time-depth transmitters (ATDT) were attached to four humpback whales near Kodiak, Alaska. Tags allowed for whale dive depths to be recorded in real time. Acoustic and mid-water trawl surveys were conducted concurrent with tagging efforts within the study area to quantify available fish resources and describe potential prey selection by humpback whales. Recorded dives were grouped through visual assessment and t-tests. Dives that indicated likely foraging occurred at a mean maximum depth of 106.2 m with 62% of dives occurring between 92 m and 120 m. Acoustic backscatter from fish surveys was attributed to potential humpback prey based on known target strength values and 10 net tows. Capelin comprised 84% of the total potential prey abundance in the region followed by age 0 (12%) and juvenile pollock (2%), and eulachon (<1%). Although horizontally segregated in the region, both capelin and age 0 pollock were distributed at depths exceeding 92 m with maximum abundance between 107 m and 120 m. The four-tagged humpbacks were found to forage in areas with greatest capelin densities but bypassed areas of high age 0 pollock abundance. The location and diving behavior of tagged whales suggested that whales were favoring capelin over pollock as a prey source.

8/683: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/habitatsuitabilityforjuvenilecommonsolesoleasolealinthebayofbiscayfranceaquantitativedescriptionusingindicatorsbasedonepibenthicfauna> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Habitat suitability for juvenile common sole (Solea solea, L) in the Bay of Biscay (France): a quantitative description using indicators based on epibenthic fauna.
This study describes the spatial distribution of young-of-the-year common sole based on beam trawl surveys conducted in late summer in the coastal and estuarine parts of the Bay of Biscay (France). Previous studies showed that habitat suitability for juvenile common sole varies according to physical factors and notably bathymetry and sediment structure. Nevertheless, the use of these descriptors alone to model habitat suitability led to considerable unexplained variability in juvenile common sole distribution. Hence, the epibenthic macro- and megafauna collected during beam trawl surveys was taken into account to improve models of habitat suitability for these juvenile flatfish. Ecotrophic guilds based on life traits (behaviour, mobility and feeding) were used to develop generic indicators of trawled benthic fauna. These synthetic descriptors were used in generalized linear models of habitat suitability in order to characterize the distribution of juvenile common sole. This approach significantly improved the description based on physical descriptors and allowed demonstrating that young common sole distribution is related to the density of trawled deposit and suspension feeders and also of carnivorous organisms. These models provide a reliable method to develop indicators of nursery habitat suitability from trawl survey data with the aim of assessing and surveying their quality.

9/684: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acousticdatacollectedduringandbetweenbottomtrawlstationsconsistencyandcommontrends> : SCORE = 1.144416
Doc : Acoustic data collected during and between bottom trawl stations: consistency and common trends
Acoustic data are often collected during bottom trawl surveys. Their use can potentially improve the precision and accuracy of fish abundance estimates if acoustic data collected between trawl stations are consistent with those collected during trawling operations. This question is addressed here through the analysis of 20 bottom trawl surveys (three survey areas and five different survey series) with coincident acoustic measurements during and between trawl stations. Firstly, on-station and underway acoustic data were compared using statistics computed globally over each survey (average vertical profiles, global indices of collocations, and spatial structures) for various combinations of depth layers. Secondly, we focussed on underway acoustic data recorded in the vicinity of stations, distinguishing between data recorded before and after the tows. On-station and underway acoustic data were highly consistent, and no systematic perturbation of the acoustic sign due to the presence of the gear a few hundred metres behind the vessel was observed.

10/685: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deepseaconferenceonthegovernanceandmanagementofdeepseafisheries> : SCORE = 0.30707902
Doc : Deep Sea 2003: Conference on the Governance and Management of Deep-sea Fisheries
INTRODUCTION: 
The growing capacity of fishermen to repeat fishing operations at some known locations thanks to, for instance, precise maps of past activity and global positioning systems (GPS), is becoming more apparent as fine-scale information on fishing activities becomes available. Aggregated declarations at the level of statistical square levels hides the fine-scale information and the possibility to analyze small-scale fishing strategies. When available, information on fishing effort such as observers' declarations or vessel monitoring system (VMS) reports may indicate that the tendency of specific-area repeat fishing is sometimes frequent (Rijnsdorp, van Mourik Broekman and Visser 2000). In this paper, we are concerned by the fact that small-scale fishing tactics may interfere in the relation between commercial catch per unit effort (CPUE) and indices of abundance and potentially reduce the relevancy of mean CPUE for resource analysis purposes. The relationship between CPUE and abundance can be biased (e.g. Hillborn and Walters 1987, Rahikainen and Kuikka 2002) as it is the product of several processes such as schooling behaviour of fish, variation in catchability, interactions between fishing vessels and spatial distribution of fishing effort.

In this paper, we consider the trawl fishery for Patagonian toothfish (Dissostichus eleginoides) off Kerguelen Islands in the Indian sector of the Southern Ocean. In spite of difficult conditions of exploitation, the fishery increased until the end of the 1990s. The fishery can be characterized in the context of this paper by the fact that (a) it is mono-specific - toothfish alone is caught, (b) fishermen do a lot of repetitive tows and (c), management rules changed a few years after the fishery started, switching from global to individual quotas. Making use of the spatio-temporal distribution of tows, Bez, De Oliveira and Duhamel (in press) showed that a mean depletion effect of 5 to 10 percent per tow exists under repetitive fishing for toothfish. This local depletion is stronger for icefish (Champsocephalus gunnari) and grey rockcod (Lepidonotothen squamifrons). However these local depletion effects are weak and the fluctuations observed around the decreasing trends can be attributed to changes in the fishing efficiencies from one tow to the next. The objective of this paper is to use the repetitive fishing to estimate fishing efficiency distributions and to interpret their changes with regards to the change in regulations.

Here, "local fishing efficiency" measures the capacity of a unit of effort to catch fish effectively accessible to fishing (Gascuel 1993). As with all components of catchability, the local fishing efficiency should be estimated with CPUEs based on the same underlying fish abundance, which is never possible. Robson (1966) circumvented this difficulty by assuming homogeneity of fish density over quadrats. Laurec (1977) used geostatistical tools to account for the differences between two CPUEs when using them. Here, we use the territorial behaviour of toothfish and the existence of a series of repetitive fishing to build ratios of consecutive CPUEs to estimate fishing efficiency probability distributions.



772) Recherche du mot : soldierfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/myripristis_sp)


773) Recherche du mot : Dana octopus squid (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/taaningia_danae)


774) Recherche du mot : Exocoetus volitans (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/exocoetus_volitans)


775) Recherche du mot : Mastigoteuthis sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mastigoteuthis_sp)


776) Recherche du mot : mont (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/seamount)


777) Recherche du mot : Océan Atlantique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/atlanticOcean)


778) Recherche du mot : Lepidophanes guentheri (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lepidophanes_guentheri)


779) Recherche du mot : Abalistes stellatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/abalistes_stellatus)


780) Recherche du mot : tablemount (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/guyot)


781) Recherche du mot : Le courant de Californie (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/california_ecosystem)


782) Recherche du mot : Histioteuthis hoylei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/histioteuthis_hoylei)


783) Recherche du mot : Epinephelus longispinis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/epinephelus_longispinis)


784) Recherche du mot : Lutjanus spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lutjanus_spp)


785) Recherche du mot : Escolar real (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/rexea_prometheoides)


786) Recherche du mot : Myctophidae sp ? (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/myctophidae)


787) Recherche du mot : Cranchia scabra (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/cranchia_scabra)


788) Recherche du mot : Shiny bird squid (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ornithoteuthis_volatilis)


789) Recherche du mot : MWFRS (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mwfrs)


790) Recherche du mot : peak (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/peak)
1/686: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/theswimmingcrabcharybdissmithiidistributionbiologyandtrophicroleinthepelagicecosystemofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : The swimming crab Charybdis smithii: distribution, biology and trophic role in the pelagic ecosystem of the western Indian Ocean
Surface ‘‘swarms'' of the swimming crabs Charybdis smithii are still considered as an unusual phenomenon in the open Indian Ocean, although their dense pelagic aggregations were already reported in waters off the Indian coast and in the northern Arabian Sea. Based on an extensive large-scale data series taken over 45 years, we demonstrate that C. smithii is common in the pelagic provinces of the western Indian Ocean driven by the wind monsoon regime. Swimming crabs are dispersed by the monsoon currents throughout the equatorial Indian Ocean.They aggregate at night in the upper 150-m layer, where their estimated biomass derived from pelagic trawling data can exceed 130 kg km-2. Abundance of C. smithii can reach >15,000 ind. km-2 in July (i.e. the peak of the southwest monsoon), declines by 50-fold in March and is negligible in May. C. smithii is an important prey for more than 30 species of abundant epipelagic top predators. In turn, it feeds on mesopelagic species. This swimming crab is a major species of the intermediate trophic levels and represents a crucial seasonal trophic link in the open ocean ecosystem of the western Indian Ocean. Outbursts in pelagic waters of huge biomasses of ordinarily benthic crustaceans (C. smithii and Natosquilla investigatoris) are a remarkable feature of the Indian Ocean, although similar, but smaller, events are reported in the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.



791) Recherche du mot : mean length (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/mean_length)
1/687: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usingsizebasedindicatorstoevaluatetheecosystemeffectsoffishing> : SCORE = 1.6184486
Doc : Using size-based indicators to evaluate the ecosystem effects of fishing
The usefulness and relevance of size-based indicators (SBIs) to an ecosystem approach to fisheries (EAF) are assessed through a review of empirical and modelling studies. SBIs are tabulated along with their definitions, data requirements, potential biases, availability of time-series, and expected directions of change in response to fishing pressure. They include mean length in a population, mean length in a community, mean maximum length in a community, and the slope and intercept of size spectra. Most SBIs can be derived from fairly standard survey data on length frequencies, without the need for elaborate models. Possible fishing- and environment-induced effects are analysed to distinguish between the two causes, and hypothetical cases of reference directions of change are tabulated. We conclude that no single SBI can serve as an effective overall indicator of heavy fishing pressure. Rather, suites of SBI should be selected, and reference directions may be more useful than reference points. Further modelling and worldwide comparative studies are needed to provide better understanding of SBIs and the factors affecting them. The slow response to fishing pressure reflects the complexity of community interactions and ecosystem responses, and prohibits their application in the context of short-term (annual) tactical fisheries management. However, movement towards longer-term (5–10 years) strategic management in EAF should facilitate their use.

2/688: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimatesofhistoricchangesintotalmortalityandselectivityforeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamisfromlengthcompositiondata> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Estimates of historic changes in total mortality and selectivity for  Eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) from length composition data
Catch-at-size data of the eastern Atlantic skipjack were used to estimate changes in total mortality from 1969 to 2007. We used a transitional model of mean length that generalized the Beverton-Holt mortality estimator to allow change in mortality rate under nonequilibrium conditions. Then, from homogeneous periods of time, length-converted catch curves were used to access qualitative changes in selectivity patterns for two surface fisheries (the baitboat fishery operating from Dakar, Senegal, and the European and associated purse seine fisheries). To explore the impact of catch on the mortality rate, a Bayesian change-point analysis was conducted on the catch time series to detect concomitant variation between mortality rates and catch. Finally, potential causes of these changes are discussed in relation to the implementation of new fishing technology, such fish aggregating devices (FAD). The general pattern depicted by total mortality is in agreement with previous knowledge on this fishery: a state of complete or practically complete exploitation during the nineties followed by the decrease in nominal purse seine fishing effort in the last decade, combined with the effect of a seasonal moratorium on FAD fishing operations. There was no evidence of a change in selectivity between the two contrasted periods of time considered: 1969-1979 and 1986-1999; the second period being characterized by the introduction of new technology onboard vessels. In contrast, the covariation over time between total catch and mortality rate three years later highlights the effect of the fishing pressure on the stock of eastern Atlantic skipjack.

3/689: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/therelevanceofsizeparametersasindicatorsoffisheryexploitationintwowestafricanreservoirs> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : The relevance of size parameters as indicators of fishery exploitation in two West African reservoirs
Abstract  Fish communities living within the artificial reservoirs of Manantali and Selingue in Mali are compared after the monitoring
of small-scale fishery landings over 13 months (May 2002–June 2003). The fishing pressure constitutes the main difference
of these two similar reservoirs. The effects of fishing on the structure of the fish communities are analyzed by using fish
size spectra and derived indicators. In Selingue Reservoir, the fishing gears mostly target smaller species (mean length of
165 mm) than in Manantali Reservoir (mean length of 210 mm). Unlike in Selingue, the size structure does not change between
seasons in Manantali. In Selingue, fishing practices that target the fish recruitment of the year constitute a structuring
factor of the fish sizes observed in the catches. In spite of similar values of the slopes of the global fish communities'
size spectra between the two reservoirs, they clearly display an intense exploitation at Selingue. Then, size-based spectra
indicators represent a potential tool for assessing the impact of fishing on fish communities in small-scale fisheries.

4/690: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/indicatorsofsustainablefishingforsouthafricansardinesardinopssagaxandanchovyengraulisencrasicolus> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Indicators of sustainable fishing for South African sardine Sardinops sagax and anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus
Six indicators were investigated for South African sardine Sardinops sagax and anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus: mean length of catch, length-at-50% maturity, total mortality, exploitation rate, ratio of bycatch, and centre of gravity of commercial catches. Sardine length-at-50% maturity is  the most promising as a descriptive indicator because it is positively correlated with population  size for an extensive time period (1953–2005). The remaining indicators were limited by shorter data-series (1984–2005). However, mean length of catch, ratio of bycatch and exploitation rate  were found to be useful when considered in conjunction with other indicators. The centre of gravity of commercial sardine catches has shown a significant eastward shift from the West Coast, whereas that of anchovy has remained off that coast. Ratio of bycatch indicates that school composition is a reliable descriptive indicator of relative abundance in the two species. Fewer indicators for anchovy were useful, which is attributed to this species' flexible life-history pattern.

5/691: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thefoodofthreeseabirdsatlathamislandtanzaniawithobservationsonforagingbymaskedboobies> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : The food of three seabirds at Latham Island, Tanzania, with observations on foraging by masked boobies
At  Latham Island, Tanzania, in August 2004 and December 2005, flying fish (Exocoetidae) contributed 90% by mass of prey items regurgitated by masked boobies Sula dactylatra. The fish had a mean caudal length of 164mm. Two boobies generally foraged in deep water, away from the Tanzanian coastline, ranging up to 390km from the island. Maximum distances flown on trips exceeded 1 000km during breeding and approached 3 000km when not breeding. Some foraging trips exceeded six days. Swift terns Sterna bergii consumed small fish and mantis shrimps Natosquilla investigatoris. Mantis shrimps recovered from the colony were significantly larger than those stranded on the island's beach, suggesting that swift terns preferentially took larger animals. Sooty terns Sterna fuscata fed on small fish and squid.



792) Recherche du mot : Ecologie du comportement (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/behavioral_ecology)


793) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus obscurus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_obscurus)


794) Recherche du mot : exploitation (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/exploitation)
1/692: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lescrevettescotieresdemadagascarbiologieexploitationgestion> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Les crevettes côtières de Madagascar: Biologie, exploitation, gestion
Depuis les années 1960, les crevettes côtières de Madagascar font l'objet d'une intense exploitation. Elles représentent l'une des principales ressources de devises du pays et constituent à ce titre un enjeu convoité par les investisseurs, mais aussi par les pêcheurs traditionnels. Du fait de l'augmentation de la pression de pêche, la pêcherie malgache se trouve confrontée, depuis le milieu des années 1990, à des difficultés économiques croissantes, à la stagnation des débarquements, à la baisse des rendements et de la taille moyenne des captures.

Avec pour objectif d'actualiser les connaissances scientifiques sur la ressource et d'en améliorer la gestion et l'exploitation, mais également pour définir une politique d'aménagement des aires de production, le Programme national de recherche crevettière (PNRC) a été lancé en 1997 avec le soutien financier de l'Agence française de développement et l'expertise scientifique de l'Institut de recherche pour le développement (IRD).

2/693: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bioeconomicmodellingofthemauritanianoctopusfishery> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Bio-economic modelling of the Mauritanian octopus fishery
A bio-economic model of the Mauritanian octopus fishery has been developed. The biological basis of
the model is an adaptation of an existing analytical model, i.e. a production model designed explicitly for
octopus biology and the observed exploitation pattern (age-based model, computed on one monthly step,
etc). In the current version of the model, both the biological and economic components of the model have
been designed to reflect the fleet structure, with one small-scale and three industrial fleet segments. The
economic component of the model is based on the prices received by, and the operating (opportunity) costs
of, each segment. When coupled with the biological component, this allows an estimation of resource rents
per segment associated with different exploitation levels and fleet structures. Within the context of a new
management plan for the Mauritanian octopus fishery, the model enables an overall assessment of the
management system to be made, and can simulate the likely impact of a range of management measures.

3/694: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophodynamicindicatorsforanecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Trophodynamic indicators for an ecosystem approach to fisheries
Acknowledging ecological interactions, such as predation, is key to an ecosystem approach to fisheries. Trophodynamic indicators are needed to measure the strength of the interactions between the different living components, and of structural ecosystem changes resulting from exploitation. We review trophodynamic indicators derived from models, as well as from emergent patterns such as trophic cascades and regime shifts. From 46 indicators identified in the literature, six (catch or biomass ratios, primary production required to support catch, production or consumption ratios and predation mortality, trophic level of the catch, fishing-in-balance, and mixed trophic impact) were selected because of their ability to reveal ecosystem-level patterns, and because they match published criteria. This suite of indicators is applied to the northern and southern Benguela ecosystems, and their performance is evaluated to depict drastic and contrasted ecosystem changes. A few complementary indicators are suggested as needed to detect the trophodynamic impacts of fisheries and ecosystem changes. Trends in indicators are sensitive to the choice of trophic level made for certain species. Trophodynamic indicators appear to be conservative, because they respond slowly to large structural changes in an ecosystem. Application of the selected indicators to other marine ecosystems is encouraged so as to evaluate fully their usefulness to an ecosystem approach to fisheries, and to establish international comparability.
©2004 International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. Published by  Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

4/695: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/sensitivityofmarinesystemstoclimateandfishingconceptsissuesandmanagementresponses> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Sensitivity of marine systems to climate and fishing: Concepts, issues and management responses
Modern fisheries research and management must understand and take account of the interactions between climate and fishing, rather than try to disentangle their effects and address each separately. These interactions are significant drivers of change in exploited marine systems and have ramifications for ecosystems and those who depend on the services they provide. We discuss how fishing and climate forcing interact on individual fish, marine populations, marine communities, and ecosystems to bring these levels into states that are more sensitive to (i.e. more strongly related with) climate forcing. Fishing is unlikely to alter the sensitivities of individual finfish and invertebrates to climate forcing. It will remove individuals with specific characteristics from the gene pool, thereby affecting structure and function at higher levels of organisation. Fishing leads to a loss of older age classes, spatial contraction, loss of sub-units, and alteration of life history traits in populations, making them more sensitive to climate variability at interannual to interdecadal scales. Fishing reduces the mean size of individuals and mean trophic level of communities, decreasing their turnover time leading them to track environmental variability more closely. Marine ecosystems under intense exploitation evolve towards stronger bottom–up control and greater sensitivity to climate forcing. Because climate change occurs slowly, its effects are not likely to have immediate impacts on marine systems but will be manifest as the accumulation of the interactions between fishing and climate variability — unless threshold limits are exceeded. Marine resource managers need to develop approaches which maintain the resilience of individuals, populations, communities and ecosystems to the combined and interacting effects of climate and fishing. Overall, a less-heavily fished marine system, and one which shifts the focus from individual species to functional groups and fish communities, is likely to provide more stable catches with climate variability and change than would a heavily fished system.
Crown Copyright © 2009 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

5/696: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/cahierdeschargesconsultationexploitationdunebasededonneessurlespeuplementsdepoissonsetlapecheartisanaledesecosystemesestuarienslagunairesoucontinentauxdafriquedelouest> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Cahier des charges : Consultation/Exploitation d'une base de données sur les peuplements de poissons et la pêche artisanale des écosystèmes estuariens, lagunaires ou continentaux d'Afrique de l'Ouest
Mise en place d'un système de consultation et d'extraction d'informations à partir d'une base de données sur les Peuplements de poissons et la Pêche artisanale des Ecosystèmes estuariens, lagunaires ou continentaux d'Afrique de l'Ouest (PPEAO).

6/697: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemapproachtofisheriesabriefoverviewandsomeconsiderationsforitsapplicationiniccat> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries: a brief overview and some considerations for its application in ICCAT
During the last SCRS plenary meeting, the sub-committee on environment suggested to present
a document on the ‘Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries' (EAF). This document firstly recalls the
general scientific and institutional background of EAF, then we propose a synoptic view of
EAF, including four main domains: governance, exploitation, resources and impacts on
ecosystems. The way that EAF is tackled within the various tuna commissions is then
summarised. Finally, we rapidly examine the way the SCRS could cope with EAF issues and
we suggest to merge the sub-committee on environment with this on by-catch into a single subcommittee
on ecosystem.

7/698: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/omnidirectionalmultibeamsonarmonitoringapplicationsinfisheriesscience> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Omnidirectional multibeam sonar monitoring: applications in fisheries science
Data exploitation, acquired by medium-frequency omnidirectional multibeam sonar, enables original studies in fisheries research but is seldom used despite the fact that such equipment is found on most fishing vessels and a number of research vessels. This is the only system for real-time monitoring of fish schools within a horizontal omnidirectional plane about a vessel or a buoy. Between 1996 and 2001, we used two standard omnidirectional sonars and developed new methodologies for exploiting their specific acoustic data according to two main sampling schemes: 'prospecting', including fishing and searching operations, and 'drifting', as with an instrumental buoy system or aboard a stationary vessel. We present a complete method for continuous data acquisition from aboard a research vessel or commercial boat, with automated data extraction by picture analysis and a data processing method. Two cases of data analysis are considered: the first on a school-by-school basis, the 'single school' mode; the second taking into account all fish schools detected within the sonar sampling volume, the 'cluster' mode. Elementary sonar information is divided into five categories that comprise 24 survey and sonar parameters and 55 school, cluster and fisher behaviour descriptors. We review the applications of these categories and discuss perspectives for their use in fisheries science. If the sonar system enables the evaluation of the effects of vessel avoidance on fish school biomass assessment, no accurate abundance estimate can be provided by a simple sonar echo-integration process. Omnidirectional sonar data can be used to analyse collectively the fish schools' swimming speed, kinematics in terms of diffusion and migration, aggregative dynamics as school splitting and merging indexes, spatial characteristics of clusters such as school density, 2D structure and fisher behaviour. The prospect of integrating such data into a fish school database, including multifrequency echo-sounder and lateral multibeam (3D) sonar data combined with a species recognition method, will enable a complete view of fish school behaviour and consequently the adoption of accurate fisheries management methods.

8/699: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimatesofhistoricchangesintotalmortalityandselectivityforeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamisfromlengthcompositiondata> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Estimates of historic changes in total mortality and selectivity for  Eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) from length composition data
Catch-at-size data of the eastern Atlantic skipjack were used to estimate changes in total mortality from 1969 to 2007. We used a transitional model of mean length that generalized the Beverton-Holt mortality estimator to allow change in mortality rate under nonequilibrium conditions. Then, from homogeneous periods of time, length-converted catch curves were used to access qualitative changes in selectivity patterns for two surface fisheries (the baitboat fishery operating from Dakar, Senegal, and the European and associated purse seine fisheries). To explore the impact of catch on the mortality rate, a Bayesian change-point analysis was conducted on the catch time series to detect concomitant variation between mortality rates and catch. Finally, potential causes of these changes are discussed in relation to the implementation of new fishing technology, such fish aggregating devices (FAD). The general pattern depicted by total mortality is in agreement with previous knowledge on this fishery: a state of complete or practically complete exploitation during the nineties followed by the decrease in nominal purse seine fishing effort in the last decade, combined with the effect of a seasonal moratorium on FAD fishing operations. There was no evidence of a change in selectivity between the two contrasted periods of time considered: 1969-1979 and 1986-1999; the second period being characterized by the introduction of new technology onboard vessels. In contrast, the covariation over time between total catch and mortality rate three years later highlights the effect of the fishing pressure on the stock of eastern Atlantic skipjack.

9/700: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/couplinglowandhightrophiclevelstowardsapathwaysorientedapproachforendtoendmodels> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Coupling low and high trophic levels: towards a pathways-oriented approach for end-to-end models
Existing models of marine ecosystems address specific issues related to the bottom-up forcing of production or to the top-down effects of fishing on a limited range of the trophic spectrum. Very few existing models explicitly incorporate the dynamics from one end of the ecosystem to the other and thus allowing the exploration of interplay between exploitation and climate effects. The shift to an ecosystem approach to fisheries and concerns about the ecological effects of climate change require the assemblage of knowledge assembled from the respective marine disciplines with the view to build end-to-end models of marine ecosystems.

Here, with a focus on plankton and fish models, we present some issues and recommendations for the integration of models between trophic levels (vertical integration) and within functional groups (horizontal integration within trophic levels). At present, vertical coupling of plankton and fish models is mainly realized through predation processes, generally represented as a functional response. In the absence of empirical evidence and quantification, the choice of the functional response term is often made by default, and is reduced to a parameterization problem. A strategy is proposed to overcome this arbitrary choice.

In addition to the vertical coupling of trophic models, the structure of end-to-end models incorporates biodiversity via horizontal integration of trophic levels. For guiding the selection of key components to be included in end-to-end models, the idea that marine food webs are structured as alternative trophic pathways is highlighted and related to observed dynamics. We suggest that an important early step in model development is the identification of major trophic pathways and bottlenecks in an ecosystem using a historical perspective.

10/701: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/repetitivefishinglocaldepletionandfishingefficiencies> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Repetitive fishing, local depletion and fishing efficiencies
Commercial catch per unit effort (cpue) recorded by observers on board trawlers operating
in the French EEZ around the Kerguelen Islands (south Indian Ocean) are used to analyse
the impact of repetitive fishing on cpues and to estimate local fishing efficiencies. Series of
cpues from the same fishing locations and no more than two days apart are first built, and
then the mean depletion effect of repetitive fishing (between 4% and 10% for Patagonian
toothfish and around 20% for icefish and marbled notothen) is quantified. Random fluctuations
of cpues around an exponential decrease (i.e. the reference model when fishing efficiencies
are constant) lead to modelling fishing efficiency as a random variable. Based
on the observations of the ratio between two consecutive catches, a method is developed
to estimate the probability density function of fishing efficiencies. The significant decrease
of average fishing efficiency between the start of the fishery and its full exploitation phase is
explained by a change in regulations (from global to individual quotas).

11/702: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/therelevanceofsizeparametersasindicatorsoffisheryexploitationintwowestafricanreservoirs> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : The relevance of size parameters as indicators of fishery exploitation in two West African reservoirs
Abstract  Fish communities living within the artificial reservoirs of Manantali and Selingue in Mali are compared after the monitoring
of small-scale fishery landings over 13 months (May 2002–June 2003). The fishing pressure constitutes the main difference
of these two similar reservoirs. The effects of fishing on the structure of the fish communities are analyzed by using fish
size spectra and derived indicators. In Selingue Reservoir, the fishing gears mostly target smaller species (mean length of
165 mm) than in Manantali Reservoir (mean length of 210 mm). Unlike in Selingue, the size structure does not change between
seasons in Manantali. In Selingue, fishing practices that target the fish recruitment of the year constitute a structuring
factor of the fish sizes observed in the catches. In spite of similar values of the slopes of the global fish communities'
size spectra between the two reservoirs, they clearly display an intense exploitation at Selingue. Then, size-based spectra
indicators represent a potential tool for assessing the impact of fishing on fish communities in small-scale fisheries.

12/703: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evaluationoftheperformanceandrobustnessofvpabasedstockassessmentandmsybasedmanagementstrategytoprocesserrortheatlanticbluefintunacasestudy> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Evaluation of the performance and robustness of VPA-based stock assessment and MSY-based management strategy to process error : The Atlantic bluefin tuna case study
An integrative simulation framework was built to evaluate the consequences of variability attributable to changes in carrying capacity or the stock's migration pattern of Atlantic bluefin tuna on the ICCAT stock assessment and management procedures. We also evaluated the performances of stock assessment methods with respect to their ability to provide good estimates of MSY, FMSY and BMSY and tested the robustness of the current ICCAT management strategy to uncertainty about the true dynamics and historical exploitation levels. The results clearly indicate that the VPA performances were seriously impaired if the long-term variations in catches are due to changes in migration/availability. There is further considerable confounding between the underlying dynamics and increasing effort that makes it difficult to draw any inference about the actual dynamics based on commercial catch data. Reference points based on F (e.g., F0.1) were less biased and more precise than those based on yield and/or SSB and were also more robust to uncertainty about the true dynamics than absolute values of F and SSB. However, F0.1 cannot indicate past and current levels of exploitation relative to FMSY when there is uncertainty about the dynamics. Therefore, while reference points such as F0.1 may be good proxies for FMSY, the MSY concept may be difficult to make operational. A size limit strategy generates greater yields than the more sophisticated F0.1, but lower SSB. However, the performances of both strategies were strongly dependent on the period over which they are implemented relative to the intrinsic cycle of the population. We finally stressed that the performances and robustness of management strategies also depend on concrete objectives, such as fleet composition, gear selectivity and economic constraints.

13/704: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemoceanographyforglobalchangeinfisheries> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Ecosystem Oceanography for global change in fisheries
Overexploitation and climate change are increasingly causing unanticipated changes in marine ecosystems, such as higher variability in fish recruitment and shifts in species dominance. An ecosystem-based approach to fisheries attempts to address these effects by integrating populations, food webs and fish habitats at different scales. Ecosystem models represent indispensable tools to achieve this objective. However, a balanced research strategy is needed to avoid overly complex models. Ecosystem oceanography represents such a balanced strategy that relates ecosystem components and their interactions to climate change and exploitation. It aims at developing realistic and robust models at different levels of organisation and addressing specific questions in a global change context while systematically exploring the ever-increasing amount of biological and environmental data.

14/705: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/regimeshiftsinupwellingecosystemsobservedchangesandpossiblemechanismsinthenorthernandsouthernbenguela> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Regime shifts in upwelling ecosystems: observed changes and possible mechanisms in the northern and southern Benguela
A regime shift is considered to be a sudden shift in structure and functioning of a marine ecosystem, affecting several living components and resulting in an alternate state. According to this definition, regime shifts differ from species replacement or alternation of species at similar trophic levels, whereby the ecosystem is not necessarily significantly altered in terms of its structure and function; only its species composition changes. This paper provides an overview of regime shifts, species replacements and alternations that have been observed in the northern and southern Benguela ecosystems over the past few decades. Bottom-up control, initiating and sustaining regime shifts or species replacements via environmental forcing, is documented for both the southern and the northern Benguela ecosystems. Fishing (a case of top-down control) appears to have played an important role in regime shift processes in the Namibian ecosystem. Very low biomass levels of exploited fish stocks associated with less efficient energy transfer in the northern Benguela are indicative of a regime shift. Very high biomass levels have been reached in the southern Benguela in the 2000s. However the alternation between sardine and anchovy that has been observed in the southern Benguela over the last two decades appears not to have had major effects on the overall functioning of the ecosystem. The consequences of regime shifts for exploitation are highlighted, suggesting that fisheries managers should move towards a more effective ecosystem approach to fisheries.
© 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

15/706: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleexploitationofamajortunaconcentrationintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Mesoscale exploitation of a major tuna concentration in the Indian Ocean
The paper analyzes the daily catch, fishing effort and fish size data of the purse seine fleet fishing in the
western Indian Ocean in February 2005, when a major concentration of tuna occurred and was heavily exploited by
this surface fishery. This tuna concentration event occurred over a period of just 12 days, in an area of about 3500
square nautical miles located to the west of the Seychelles. This small stratum produced a total catch of 22 000 t,
corresponding to 6.5% of the total fishing mortality of all adult yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) in the entire Indian
Ocean in 2005. Sets were made mainly on free schools and the catch mainly composed of large yellowfin tuna. The
average CPUE and the average catch per set were very large, 65 t and 85 t per fishing day, respectively. This “event” took
place in a precise area where a high concentration of chlorophyll had been localized 18 days before. The subsequent
concentration of tuna schools probably arose due to the high densities of their prey feeding on this large phytoplankton
biomass. This phytoplankton bloom was observed at the edge of an anticyclonic eddy, but its origin and its high density
cannot be fully explained by available environmental data. The adult yellowfin were probably at a reproductive stage
and actively feeding on the local food chain generated by the phytoplankton bloom. Such an event is extreme, but
typical of tuna purse seine fisheries where fleets often search for such tuna patches. These events play an important role
in tuna fisheries due to the increase in fishing effort and fishing efficiency of purses seiners, both of which increase their
impact on the resource. The fine scale study of such events and their improved integration into tuna stock assessments
is recommended.

16/707: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/complexinterplaysamongpopulationdynamicsenvironmentalforcingandexploitationinfisheries> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Complex interplays among population dynamics, environmental forcing, and exploitation in fisheries
The patterns of variations in fisheries time series are known to result from a complex combination of species and fisheries dynamics all coupled with environmental forcing (including climate, trophic interactions, etc.). Disentangling the relative effects of these factors has been a major goal of fisheries science for both conceptual and management reasons. By examining the variability of 169 tuna and billfish time series of catch and catch per unit effort (CPUE) throughout the Atlantic as well as their linkage to the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), we find that the importance of these factors differed according to the spatial scale. At the scale of the entire Atlantic the patterns of variations are primarily spatially structured, whereas at a more regional scale the patterns of variations were primarily related to the fishing gear. Furthermore, the NAO appeared to also structure the patterns of variations of tuna time series, especially over the North Atlantic. We conclude that the patterns of variations in fisheries time series of tuna and billfish only poorly reflect the underlying dynamics of these fish populations; they appear to be shaped by several successive embedded processes, each interacting with each other. Our results emphasize the necessity for scientific data when investigating the population dynamics of large pelagic fishes, because CPUE fluctuations are not directly attributable to change in species' abundance.

17/708: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/conferenceiddriparis> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Conférence IDDRI Paris
En moins d'un siècle, les pêcheries marines mondiales qui constituent la dernière industrie exploitant à l'échelle globale des ressources renouvelables sauvages ont atteint leurs limites écologiques et économiques. C'est dans un contexte de surexploitation des écosystèmes et de changement climatique que nos sociétés envisagent aujourd'hui  la viabilité, et dans certains cas la survie, d'une activité d'exploitation du milieu naturel qui pourrait devenir, une activité marginale voire récréative. Une chance unique, mais aussi un challenge, s'offrent à nous dans la mesure où la complexité des écosystèmes (de leur fonctionnement mais aussi de leur exploitation et de leur conservation) est aujourd'hui perçue comme indispensable à leur viabilité. Cette approche écosystémique des pêches est aujourd'hui sollicitée au niveau international et les réponses en terme d'aménagement des pêcheries commencent à voir le jour. Intégrer les pêcheries dans les écosystèmes marins, réconcilier conservation et exploitation restent possible dans un contexte d'usages de plus en plus diversifiés des ressources marines mais nécessitera de nombreuses évolutions. Cette conférence permettra de présenter l'approche écosystémique  des pêches et la façon dont certains pays la mettent en oeuvre de façon pragmatique, en Afrique du Sud par exemple. Les changements globaux doivent être perçus comme une chance pour nos sociétés pour repenser notre relation à la Nature.

18/709: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/sustainableexploitationofsmallpelagicfishstockschallengedbyenvironmentalandecosystemchangesareview> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Sustainable exploitation of small pelagic fish stocks challenged by environmental and ecosystem changes: a review
Small pelagic fish contribute up to 50% of the total landing of marine species. They are most abundant in upwelling areas and contribute to food security. Exploited stocks of these species are prone to large interannual and interdecadal variation of abundance as well as to collapse. We discuss why small pelagic fish and fisheries are so "special" with regard to their biology, ecology, and behavior. Two adjectives can sum up the characteristics of pelagic species: variability and instability. Analyses of the relationships between small pelagic fish and their physical environment at different time-scales illustrate the complexity of the interplay between exploitation and environmental impacts. How small pelagic fish species are positioned and related within the trophic web suggests that these species play a central role in the functioning and dynamics of upwelling ecosystems. Finally, we discuss the sustainable exploitation of small pelagic fisheries through appropriate management, focusing on the resilience to exploitation, a comparison of different management options and regulatory mechanisms. We recommend that statistical, socio-economical, and political merits of a proposed two-level (short- and long-term) management strategy be undertaken.

19/710: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howdoesfishingaltermarinepopulationsandecosystemssensitivitytoclimate> : SCORE = 1.0832729
Doc : How does fishing alter marine populations and ecosystems sensitivity to climate?
Evidence has accumulated that climate variability influences the state and functioning of marine ecosystems. At the same time increasing pressure from exploitation and other human activities has been shown to impact exploited and non-exploited species and potentially modify ecosystem structure. There has been a tendency among marine scientists to pose the question as a dichotomy, i.e., whether (1) "natural" climate variability or (2) fishery exploitation bears the primary responsibility for population declines in fish populations and the associated ecosystem changes. However, effects of both climate and exploitation are probably substantially involved in most cases. More importantly, climate and exploitation interact in their effects, such that climate may cause failure in a fishery management scheme but that fishery exploitation may also disrupt the ability of a resource population to withstand, or adjust to, climate changes. Here, we review how exploitation, by altering the structure of populations and ecosystems, can modify their ability to respond to climate. The demographic effects of fishing (removal of large-old individuals) can have substantial consequences on the capacity of populations to buffer climate variability through various pathways (direct demographic effects, effects on migration, parental effects). In a similar way, selection of population sub-units within meta-populations may also lead to a reduction in the capacity of populations to withstand climate variability and change. At the ecosystem level, reduced complexity by elimination of species, such as might occur by fishing, may be destabilizing and could lead to reduced resilience to perturbations. Differential exploitation of marine resources could also promote increased turnover rates in marine ecosystems, which would exacerbate the effects of environmental changes. Overall (and despite the specificities of local situations) reduction in marine diversity at the individual, population and ecosystem levels will likely lead to a reduction in the resilience and an increase in the response of populations and ecosystems to future climate variability and change. Future management schemes will have to consider the structure and functioning of populations and ecosystems in a wider sense in order to maximise the ability of marine fauna to adapt to future climates.

20/711: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/movingtowardssustainablechangeinmarineecosystemsversuneexploitationviabledesoceansrespectueusedesecosystemesmarins> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Moving towards sustainable change in marine ecosystems/ Vers une exploitation viable des océans, respectueuse des écosystèmes marins ?
La surexploitation par la pêche entraîne de profondes modifications des écosystèmes qui ne sont pas toujours réversibles; elle diminue leur productivité globale pour les pêcheries et amplifie l'impact de l'environnement sur les populations marines.

21/712: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofthegrowthparametersoftheskipjacktunakatsuwonuspelamisamongareasintheeasternatlanticanalysisfromtaggingdatawithinametaanalysisapproach> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Variability of the growth parameters of the skipjack tuna (/Katsuwonus pelamis/) among areas in the eastern Atlantic: Analysis from tagging data within a meta-analysis approach
In order to assess the latitudinal variability in growth of the eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), conventional tagging data collected by the International Commission of the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) since the 1960s are reanalyzed using a modified version of the von Bertalanffy-Fabens growth model. An analysis of the latitudinal patterns of recaptures showed that the lowest mixing rate between northern and southern regions was evidenced at 10◦ N Latitude. Since it is theoretically admitted that growth parameters L∞ and K are negatively correlated, we substituted L∞ into the growth equation model by a simple bioenergetic function of K fitted from existing studies on skipjack growth parameters. The likelihood for the meta-analysis of growth is combined with the likelihoods from the two regional tagging data with the aim of estimating simultaneously K in both areas and to transfer adequately uncertainties associated with the different data sets. From this study, it was showed that fish inhabiting waters south of 10◦ N latitude can be expected to grow generally larger but at slower rate than in the North (L∞ = 112.34 cm vs. 89.38 cm, and K = 0.14 vs. 0.38, respectively). Our results are consistent with the range of growth estimates obtained in the Atlantic Ocean and in different parts of the World's oceans. In contrast, the estimates of L∞ and K done in the Senegalese region in the 1980s within the framework of the Skipjack Year Program, and traditionally applied by ICCAT, are not supported by the present study. The findings concerning the phenotypic plasticity exhibited by growth of skipjack among latitudinal regions suggest potential differences in fish population productivity and consequently imply that non-conventional stock assessment methods such as catch-at size/growth transition matrix per region could be used to assess the responses of skipjack to exploitation.

22/713: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/useandlimitsofthreemethodsforassessingfishsizespectraandfishabundanceintwotropicalmanmadelakes> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Use and limits of three methods for assessing fish size spectra and fish abundance in two tropical man-made lakes
A comparative study, combining three different assessment methods (fish gillnet sampling, artisanal fisheries surveys and hydroacoustics) was conducted in Mali where two man-made reservoirs (Sélingué and Manantali) are particularly suited for investigating the impact of fishing effort on the fish assemblage. These two ecosystems have relatively similar areas, edaphic and environmental properties but are subjected to different levels of fishing exploitation (low at Manantali, high at Sélingué). The comparison is based on two indicator parameters: the abundance indices and the size spectra distributions, obtained by the three methods at two contrasting hydrological seasons (April and October). The results were compared first between the two seasons, and then between the two lakes. The present work is based on two main hypotheses: (1) that there is a higher fish abundance in October associated with smaller overall sizes, after spawning; (2) a lower abundance and smaller sizes in the Sélingué reservoir than in Manantali, because of the much higher fishing pressure in Sélingué. The relevance of each method to the selected indicators is discussed. On the one hand, the three methodologies on the whole gave similar conclusions and they also complement each other. On the other hand, some results do not match the hypotheses because of biases due to difficulties and technical limitations of each method in such ecosystems (shallow water with vegetation and stumps of former forests).

23/714: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climatevariabilityfishandfisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Climate variability, fish and fisheries
Fish population variability and fisheries activities are closely linked to weather and climate dynamics. While weather at sea directly affects fishing, environmental variability determines the distribution, migration, and abundance of fish. Fishery science grew up during the last century by integrating knowledge from oceanography, fish biology, marine ecology and fish population dynamics, largely focused on the great northern hemisphere fisheries. During this period, understanding and explaining interannual fish recruitment variability became a major focus for fisheries oceanographers. Yet, the close link between climate and fisheries is best illustrated by the effect of 'unexpected' events – i.e. non-seasonal, and sometimes catastrophic – on fish exploitation, such as those associated with the El Niño/ Southern Oscillation (ENSO). The observation that fish populations fluctuate at decadal time scales and show patterns of synchrony while being geographically separated drew attention to oceanographic processes driven by low frequency signals, as reflected by indices tracking large scale climate patterns such as the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) and the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO). This low frequency variability was first observed in catch fluctuations of small pelagic fish (anchovies, sardines), but similar effects soon emerged for larger fish such as salmons, various groundfish species, and some tuna species. Today, the availability of long time series of observations combined with major scientific advances in sampling and modelling the oceans ecosystems allows fisheries science to investigate processes generating variability in abundance, distribution and dynamics of fish species at daily, decadal and even centennial scales. These studies are central to the research programme of GLOBEC (Global Ocean Ecosystems Dynamics). In this review, we present examples of relationships between climate variability and fisheries at these different time-scales for species covering various marine ecosystems ranging from equatorial to sub-arctic regions. We describe some of the known mechanisms linking climate variability and exploited fish populations, as well as some leading hypotheses, and their implications for their management and for the modelling of their dynamics. We conclude with recommendations for collaborative work between climatologists,
oceanographers and fisheries scientists to resolve some of the outstanding problems in the development of sustainable fisheries.

24/715: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/indicatorsofsustainablefishingforsouthafricansardinesardinopssagaxandanchovyengraulisencrasicolus> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Indicators of sustainable fishing for South African sardine Sardinops sagax and anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus
Six indicators were investigated for South African sardine Sardinops sagax and anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus: mean length of catch, length-at-50% maturity, total mortality, exploitation rate, ratio of bycatch, and centre of gravity of commercial catches. Sardine length-at-50% maturity is  the most promising as a descriptive indicator because it is positively correlated with population  size for an extensive time period (1953–2005). The remaining indicators were limited by shorter data-series (1984–2005). However, mean length of catch, ratio of bycatch and exploitation rate  were found to be useful when considered in conjunction with other indicators. The centre of gravity of commercial sardine catches has shown a significant eastward shift from the West Coast, whereas that of anchovy has remained off that coast. Ratio of bycatch indicates that school composition is a reliable descriptive indicator of relative abundance in the two species. Fewer indicators for anchovy were useful, which is attributed to this species' flexible life-history pattern.

25/716: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemesmarinsversunepecheresponsableetdurable> : SCORE = 0.4432304
Doc : Ecosystèmes marins : Vers une pêche responsable et durable
Il est urgent de mettre en place des mesures de gestion qui prennent en compte les impacts de la pêche sur le fonctionnement des écosystèmes. Les pratiques actuelles de la pêche, trop souvent issues d'une vision à court terme de rentabilité économique, hypothèquent non seulement l'avenir des populations et écosystèmes marins mais également celui du secteur de la pêche à moyen terme.
Dans un objectif d'incitation à une démarche de précaution et dans un véritable effort de construction de la pêche de demain, la FAO (Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'Alimentation et l'Agriculture) a jeté les bases d'une « Approche Ecosystémique des Pêches ». En établissant le code de conduite pour des pêches responsables en 1995, une dimension nouvelle apparaît avec le principe de précaution appliqué aux pêcheries. Il s'agit en l'occurrence d'une tentative affichée de réconcilier conservation et exploitation. Il ne s'agit pas de rejeter l'activité de pêche en tant que telle mais de responsabiliser les pêcheurs et instances décisionnelles dans l'exploitation des ressources renouvelables marines. Les activités de l'exploitation ne sont alors plus considérées comme isolées de leur contexte qu'est l'écosystème. La déclaration de Reykjavik en 2001, qui a ensuite été avalisée durant le Sommet Mondial sur le Développement Durable à Johannesburg en 2002, demande aux Etats de fonder leur politique d'exploitation des ressources marines sur des approches écosystémiques. Un cadre international et un agenda sont désormais fixés pour lequel des objectifs de la conservation et de l'exploitation existent.
Pour les scientifiques, un des enjeux est de mieux quantifier les effets de la pêche sur les écosystèmes. De nombreuses lacunes persistent encore dans ce domaine, car ce n'est que récemment que l'effort de recherche est porté sur le fonctionnement des écosystèmes dans leur ensemble. Une voie de recherche possible est d'élaborer et de proposer des indicateurs écosystémiques des pêches dans un objectif d'établir une véritable fiche de santé des écosystèmes marins et ainsi de mieux communiquer les connaissances scientifiques aux sphères décisionnelles de la gestion des pêches. L'utilisation de ces indicateurs a été discutée lors d'un symposium international en avril 2004 à l'Unesco, à Paris, qui a réuni plus de 250 chercheurs de 53 pays. Cette conférence a permis de faire un bilan des connaissances sur ce sujet et de jeter les bases des recherches futures à engager afin d'affiner les diagnostics de l'état de santé des écosystèmes marins mondiaux. Reste à savoir si les gouvernements intègreront la responsabilisation des pêcheries, prônée par la FAO, dans leur législation à l'heure où une gestion responsable et précautionneuse de la pêche est un minimum requis pour assurer la viabilité de la ressource et de son exploitation. Si, faute de ressources, les pêches maritimes ne veulent pas devenir une activité ludique à l'instar de la chasse, il faudra réduire le nombre de bateaux et leur activité, reconstituer les nombreux stocks de poissons qui se sont effondrés et réconcilier conservation et exploitation, c'est-à-dire rendre les pêcheries plus respectueuses de leur environnement.

26/717: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/commontrendsmodelincatchperunitofeffortforthetropicaltunas> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Common trends model in catch per unit of effort for the tropical tunas
We explored the usefulness of Dynamic factor analysis (DFA) to detect common patterns in the sets of CPUEs for Atlantic yellowfin (Thunnus albacores) and for eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), respectively. For yellowfin, the most appropriate model, in terms of AIC, identified two common trends. The 10 yellowfin CPUE series could be divided into 3 groups based on factor loadings. The grouping corresponds in part to the geographic location of the fisheries (i.e., the western Atlantic area for group 1 and the northeastern tropical Atlantic region for group 2). The fact that the first group is constituted by CPUEs obtained from 3 different fishing gears (pole and line, purse seine and longline), operating at different depth levels, suggests that the regional trend reflects more a sub-population response to a local exploitation rate than to environmental conditions. In light of the present results, the CPUEs should be combined respectively into two regional indices before performing a unique combined index. For skipjack, results are less conclusive and further studies with explanatory factors are required to account for the fact that this species is seldom targeted by the tuna fisheries.

27/718: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactoftrophicinteractionsonproductionfunctionsandontheecosystemresponsetofishingasimulationapproach> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Impact of trophic interactions on production functions and on the ecosystem response to fishing: a simulation approach
A simulation model is developed to analyse the variability of production functions in all exploited virtual ecosystem. We assume that a complex food web call be represented by a set of trophic components interacting through predation. Each component has a set of recruitment, growth, and Survival models, a catch level and trophic preference function. Prey are Consumed according to their abundance and predators' trophic preference functions are estimated ill a pristine system. A parameter for the food consumption per unit biomass describes foraging for each trophic component. The FishBase database is used to parameterise some of the major processes in a generic model. A commercial fishery targets mostly high trophic levels through a set selectivity function. Some key ecosystem features are assessed in simulations: the intensity of top-down and of bottom-up controls, and the degree of trophic opportunism. Top-down control is the regulation of lower food-web components by one or several upper-levels predators. Bottom-up control is the regulation of trophic components by their prey. Results show that biological production functions are highly dependent on predation parameters and vary differently according to trophic level. Fishing activity modifies the biomass distribution between components and strongly affects higher trophic levels more sensitive to exploitation. Trophic dynamics within the system are altered through the rates of predation mortality. In systems where predation mortality is high, top-down control dominates and fishing affects all food web components. These "fishing-controlled" systems display compensatory mechanisms through a released predation control. We also show that systems where productivity is dependent on prey abundance are more "environment-controlled" and seem more sensitive to overexploitation, particularly the higher trophic levels. Trophic Opportunism tends to dampen the propagation of top-down or bottom-up controls through the food web and thus stabilizes the ecosystem. Trophic relationships are therefore essential ecosystems characteristics that determine production and response to exploitation. Their routine analysis is a key part of the ecosystem approach.

28/719: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/therelevanceofspeciesbasedindicatorsasatoolforevaluatingthestructureofexploitedfishassemblagesacomparativestudyoftwotropicallakesinmaliwestafrica> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : The relevance of species-based indicators as a tool for evaluating the structure of exploited fish assemblages : a comparative study of two tropical lakes in Mali, West Africa
A comparative study of the fish communities in two lake ecosystems in Mali (Lakes Manantali and Selingue) was based on monitoring small-scale fishery landings for a 13-month period. The main difference between the two lakes is the fishing pressure, being higher in Lake Selingue and lower in Lake Manantali. The effects of fishing on the structure of the fish communities in the two lakes were analysed with the use of diversity indices, rank species abundance (RSA) and abundance–biomass comparative curve (ABC) methods. The diversity differed significantly between the lakes, being higher for Lake Selingue. Analysis of the community structure, using RSA curves, indicated a more regular distribution of the weights between fish species for Lake Selingue than for Lake Manantali. The two lakes exhibited different exploited fish community structures. For Lake Selingue, the fishery was based on smaller-sized species, compared to that for Lake Manantali. The indicators based on the species composition of exploited fish communities, in terms of abundance and life-history traits, seemed to be more relevant in this study. Indicators such as diversity indices and RSA curves depend strongly on the exploitation strategy, being unreliable for evaluating exploited fish communities from catch data.

29/720: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thetrophicspectrumtheoryandapplicationasanecosystemindicator> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : The trophic spectrum: theory and application as an ecosystem indicator
Trophic spectra represent the distribution of biomass, abundance, or catch by trophic level, and may be used as indicators of the trophic structure and functioning of aquatic ecosystems in a fisheries context. As a theoretical background, we present a simple ecosystem model of biomass flow reflecting predation and ontogenetic processes. Biomass trophic spectrum of total biomass can be modelled as the result of three major factors and processes: trophic efficiency, transfer kinetics, and extent of top-down control. In the simulations, changes in the spectrum highlight fishing impacts on trophic structure and reveal some functional characteristics of the underlying ecosystem. As examples of potential applications, three case studies of trophic spectra are presented. Catch trophic spectra allow description of structural differences among European fishing areas and periods. Abundance trophic spectra of coral-reef fish assemblages display different trophic signatures, characterizing different reef habitats in New Caledonia and highlighting fishing effects in a marine protected area context. Biomass trophic spectra of demersal resources off Northwest Africa show a shift in ecosystem structure that can be attributed to the rapid increase in fishing pressure during the past few decades. Off Senegal, total biomass remained fairly constant, suggesting a strong top-down control linked to fisheries targeting high trophic level species. Off Guinea, exploitation rates are spread over a wider range of trophic levels, and the total biomass of demersal resources tended to decrease. The trophic spectrum is concluded to be a useful indicator describing and comparing systems in time and space, detecting phase shifts linked to natural or anthropogenic perturbations, and revealing differences in ecosystem functioning.

30/721: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thedynamicsofcollapseinworldfisheries> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : The dynamics of collapse in world fisheries
The fear of a rapid depletion of world fish stocks because of over-exploitation is increasing. Analysis of 1519 main series of the FAO world fisheries catch database over the last 50 years reveals that 366 fisheries' collapses occurred, that is nearly one fishery of four. The robustness of this result is tested by performing several complementary analyses using different conservative options. The number of collapses has been stable through time since 1950s indicating no improvement in the overall fisheries management. Three typical patterns emerge from the analysis of catch series during the period preceding the collapses: smooth collapse (33%), i.e. a long regular decline, erratic collapse (45%), i.e. a fall after several ups and downs, and a plateau-shaped collapse (21%), i.e. a sudden fall after a relatively long and stable persistence of high level of catches. Using a simple mathematical model, we relate the plateau-shaped collapses (which are, by nature, the most difficult to predict) to surreptitiously increasing exploitation and a depensatory mechanism at low population levels. Thus, a stable level of catch over several years is shown to conceal the risk of a sudden collapse. This jeopardizes the common assumption that considers the stability of catch as a goal for fisheries sustainability.

31/722: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deepseaconferenceonthegovernanceandmanagementofdeepseafisheries> : SCORE = 0.30707902
Doc : Deep Sea 2003: Conference on the Governance and Management of Deep-sea Fisheries
INTRODUCTION: 
The growing capacity of fishermen to repeat fishing operations at some known locations thanks to, for instance, precise maps of past activity and global positioning systems (GPS), is becoming more apparent as fine-scale information on fishing activities becomes available. Aggregated declarations at the level of statistical square levels hides the fine-scale information and the possibility to analyze small-scale fishing strategies. When available, information on fishing effort such as observers' declarations or vessel monitoring system (VMS) reports may indicate that the tendency of specific-area repeat fishing is sometimes frequent (Rijnsdorp, van Mourik Broekman and Visser 2000). In this paper, we are concerned by the fact that small-scale fishing tactics may interfere in the relation between commercial catch per unit effort (CPUE) and indices of abundance and potentially reduce the relevancy of mean CPUE for resource analysis purposes. The relationship between CPUE and abundance can be biased (e.g. Hillborn and Walters 1987, Rahikainen and Kuikka 2002) as it is the product of several processes such as schooling behaviour of fish, variation in catchability, interactions between fishing vessels and spatial distribution of fishing effort.

In this paper, we consider the trawl fishery for Patagonian toothfish (Dissostichus eleginoides) off Kerguelen Islands in the Indian sector of the Southern Ocean. In spite of difficult conditions of exploitation, the fishery increased until the end of the 1990s. The fishery can be characterized in the context of this paper by the fact that (a) it is mono-specific - toothfish alone is caught, (b) fishermen do a lot of repetitive tows and (c), management rules changed a few years after the fishery started, switching from global to individual quotas. Making use of the spatio-temporal distribution of tows, Bez, De Oliveira and Duhamel (in press) showed that a mean depletion effect of 5 to 10 percent per tow exists under repetitive fishing for toothfish. This local depletion is stronger for icefish (Champsocephalus gunnari) and grey rockcod (Lepidonotothen squamifrons). However these local depletion effects are weak and the fluctuations observed around the decreasing trends can be attributed to changes in the fishing efficiencies from one tow to the next. The objective of this paper is to use the repetitive fishing to estimate fishing efficiency distributions and to interpret their changes with regards to the change in regulations.

Here, "local fishing efficiency" measures the capacity of a unit of effort to catch fish effectively accessible to fishing (Gascuel 1993). As with all components of catchability, the local fishing efficiency should be estimated with CPUEs based on the same underlying fish abundance, which is never possible. Robson (1966) circumvented this difficulty by assuming homogeneity of fish density over quadrats. Laurec (1977) used geostatistical tools to account for the differences between two CPUEs when using them. Here, we use the territorial behaviour of toothfish and the existence of a series of repetitive fishing to build ratios of consecutive CPUEs to estimate fishing efficiency probability distributions.

32/723: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/combiningfishingclosurewithminimumsizeofcapturetoimproveoctopusproductioninsenegalesewatersanevaluationusinganalyticalmodelling> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Combining fishing closure with minimum size of capture to improve Octopus production in Senegalese waters: an evaluation using analytical modelling,
The dynamics of the Octopus vulgaris (Cuvier, 1797) population in Senegalese waters is
modelled to evaluate the potential impact of combining temporal fishing closure and minimum size of
capture on the production of this stock. The study is based on an analytical approach (cohort analysis
and simulation of captures on a monthly basis) adapted to the biological characteristics of O. vulgaris,
a short lifespan species. Several combinations of the two policies (minimum size and fishing closure)
are tested to complement the results of previous studies that evaluated each of the two strategies
separately, and in addition, to account for the fact that a positive synergistic effect can be expected.
The model covers the exploitation period from 1996 to 1999. As in previous simulations (of separate
effects), the present results focus on the instability of the responses (positive or negative, significant
or not, depending on the situation that prevailed each year) of the octopus stock to such policies. As
a consequence it is difficult to identify the ideal combination of closure and size limits that would
ensure a substantial improvement in production every year. Nevertheless, a 350g or 500g minimum size
policy seems to be profitable when combined with a two-month fishing closure in July–August. The
final discussion focuses on the fact that, in addition to its regional range, the present study presents
also a broader interest because the methodology proposed here aims to be applicable to other
cephalopods and short lived species fisheries.

33/724: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/interpretingcatchperuniteffortdatatoassesthestatusofindividualstocksandcommunities> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Interpreting catch per unit effort data to asses the status of individual stocks and communities
Despite being one of the most common pieces of information used in assessing the status of
fish stocks, relative abundance indices based on catch per unit effort (cpue) data are notoriously
problematic. Raw cpue is seldom proportional to abundance over a whole exploitation
history and an entire geographic range, because numerous factors affect catch rates.
One of the most commonly applied fisheries analyses is standardization of cpue data to remove
the effect of factors that bias cpue as an index of abundance. Even if cpue is standardized
appropriately, the resulting index of relative abundance, in isolation, provides limited
information for management advice or about the effect of fishing. In addition, cpue data
generally cannot provide information needed to assess and manage communities or ecosystems.
We discuss some of the problems associated with the use of cpue data and some
methods to assess and provide management advice about fish populations that can help
overcome these problems, including integrated stock assessment models, management strategy
evaluation, and adaptive management. We also discuss the inappropriateness of using
cpue data to evaluate the status of communities. We use tuna stocks in the Pacific Ocean as
examples.

34/725: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multibeamsonardetectionofsuspendedmusselculturegroundsintheopenseadirectobservationmethodsformanagementpurposes> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Multibeam sonar detection of suspended mussel culture grounds in the open sea: Direct observation methods for management purposes
The exploitation of offshore mussel farms is becoming important throughout the world, but monitoring this activity remains a difficult task. Here, we propose a specific method for this purpose. A total of 140 long-lines were monitored on a mussel culture ground in the French Mediterranean Sea during four experimental surveys deploying multibeam sonar devices mounted on poles (Reson Seabat 6012, 455 kHz) on small boats. This allowed geo-referenced observations to be made of the submerged mussel long-lines, as well as three-dimensional (3D) drawings of the long-line structures and the sea bed shapes, using long-line longitudinal sonar sampling. Three sonar data-analysis methods were applied: (i) direct two-dimensional (2D) visual interpretation of raw sonar video images; (ii) indirect 2D long-line drawings; and (iii) 3D digital long-line reconstructions. The development of these acoustic methods in shallow water provides scientists, managers and local authorities with a tool for observing the 3D position (geographical position and depth) of mussel cultures, for counting each structure by the ‘long-line echo-counting' method, for monitoring their shape in situ, and for classifying the mussel rope segments into three growth categories (‘in growth', ‘full' and ‘empty'). The use of acoustic tools for monitoring underwater mussel culture grounds, for management purposes and for scientific studies, could be extended to other artificial structures in shallow water environments.



795) Recherche du mot : plankton (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/plankton)
1/726: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofplanktonwithreferencetofishvariabilityinthebenguelacurrentlargemarineecosystemanoverview> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Variability of plankton with reference to fish variability in the benguela current Large Marine Ecosystem – An Overview.


2/727: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/twowaycouplingversusonewayforcingofplanktonandfishmodelstopredictecosystemchangesinthebenguela> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Two-way coupling versus one-way forcing of plankton and fish models to predict ecosystem changes in the Benguela
‘End-to-end' models have been adopted in an attempt to capture more of the processes that influence the ecology of marine ecosystems and to make system wide predictions of the effects of fishing and climate change. Here, we develop an end-to-end model by coupling existing models that describe the dynamics of low (ROMS–N2P2Z2D2) and high trophic levels (OSMOSE). ROMS–N2P2Z2D2 is a biogeochemical model representing phytoplankton and zooplankton seasonal dynamics forced by hydrodynamics in the Benguela upwelling ecosystem. OSMOSE is an individual-based model representing the dynamics of several species of fish, linked through opportunistic and size-based trophic interactions. The models are coupled through a two-way size-based predation process. Plankton provides prey for fish, and the effects of predation by fish on the plankton are described by a plankton mortality term that is variable in space and time. Using the end-to-end model, we compare the effects of two-way coupling versus one-way forcing of the fish model with the plankton biomass field. The fish-induced mortality on plankton is temporally variable, in part explained by seasonal changes in fish biomass. Inclusion of two-way feedback affects the seasonal dynamics of plankton groups and usually reduces the amplitude of variation in abundance (top-down effect). Forcing and coupling lead to different predicted food web structures owing to changes in the dominant food chain which is supported by plankton (bottom-up effect). Our comparisons of one-way forcing and two-way coupling show how feedbacks may affect abundance, food web structure and food web function and emphasise the need to critically examine the consequences of different model architectures when seeking to predict the effects of fishing and climate change.

3/728: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingthecombinedeffectofnutrientsandpyreneontheplanktonpopulationvalidationusingmesocosmexperimentdataandscenarioanalysis> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Modeling the combined effect of nutrients and pyrene on the plankton population: Validation using mesocosm experiment data and scenario analysis
A newintegrated model that includes a hydrodynamic model coupled with a contaminant fate and effect sub-model and an ecological sub-model is presented and validated using data from mesocosm experiments. The experiments were carried out in the Isefjord (Denmark) and include the combined effects of nutrients and pyrene addition on the lower trophic levels of bacteria, zooplankton and phytoplankton. The model was able to correctly represent the main dynamics observed in the mesocosms during the 11 days of the experiment and thereby confirmed that it is possible to represent short-term changes in the system with a simplified food-web model on a small spatial and temporal scale. Finally, the validated model was used to carry out a scenario analysis to investigate the effects of a contaminant pulse at different pyrene concentrations and different release timings. Results showed that the ecosystem's vulnerability to a pyrene pulse depends on the initial condition of the system. Stronger biomass reduction was observed when the pulse was released during the zooplankton bloom. Conversely, when the pulse was added at low biomass and before the bloom, the system showed a tendency to behave non-linearly.
© 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

4/729: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acousticcharacterizationoftropicaltunapreyinthewesternindianoceaninrelationwithenvironmentalconditions> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Acoustic characterization of tropical tuna prey in the Western Indian Ocean in relation with environmental conditions
From 2002 to 2004, four scientific cruises were conducted by the Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD) in the Mozambique Channel (Western Indian Ocean), in order to study the pelagic habitat of large top predators such as tuna and tuna-like species. Acoustic data were recorded to investigate the spatial and temporal distribution of plankton layers and micronekton aggregations. Top predators (tunas and tuna-like species) that were caught by longlines were considered as biological samplers of the micronekton organisms. The Sea Level Anomalies (SLA) were used to characterize the presence of a persistent field of mesoscale anticyclonic gyres in the Mozambique Channel. In this study, we studied the possible links between the mesocale dynamics of the eddies, the presence of prey detected by acoustics, and the diet of tunas caught by longlines. We attempted to demonstrate the importance of mesoscale dynamics for the productivity in this area (i.e., occurrence of cyclonic eddies in the Mozambique Channel) for the distribution of the micronekton organisms that are consumed by the top predators.

5/730: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/zooplanktonandforagefishspeciesoffperulargescalebottomupforcingandlocalscaledepletion> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Zooplankton and forage fish species off Peru: large-scale bottom-up forcing and local-scale depletion
The Humboldt Current System, like all upwelling systems, has dramatic quantities of plankton-feeding fish, which suggested that their population dynamics may ‘drive' or ‘control' ecosystem dynamics. With this in mind we analysed the relationship between forage fish populations and their main prey, zooplankton populations. Our study combined a zooplankton sampling program (1961–2005) with simultaneous acoustic observations on fish from 40 pelagic surveys (1983–2005) conducted by the Peruvian Marine Research Institute (IMARPE) and landing statistics for anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) along the Peruvian coast from 1961 to 2005. The multi-year trend of anchoveta population abundance varied consistently with zooplankton biovolume trend, suggesting bottom-up control on anchovy at the population scale (since oceanographic conditions and phytoplankton production support the changes in zooplankton abundance). For a finer-scale analysis (km) we statistically modelled zooplankton biovolume as a function of geographical (latitude and distance from the 200-m isobath), environmental (sea surface temperature), temporal (year, month and time-of-day) and biological (acoustic anchovy and sardine biomass within 5 km of each zooplankton sample) covariates over all survey using both classification and regression trees (CART) and generalized additive models (GAM). CART showed local anchoveta density to have the strongest effect on zooplankton biovolume, with significantly reduced levels of biovolume for higher neighbourhood anchoveta biomass. Additionally, zooplankton biovolume was higher offshore than on the shelf. GAM results corroborated the CART findings, also showing a clear diel effect on zooplankton biovolume, probably due to diel migration or daytime net avoidance. Apparently, the observed multi-year population scale bottom-up control is not inconsistent with local depletion of zooplankton when anchoveta are locally abundant, since the latter effect was observed over a wide range of overall anchoveta abundance.

6/731: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/functionalgroupbiodiversityineasternboundaryupwellingecosystemsquestionsthewaspwaisttrophicstructure> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Functional group biodiversity in Eastern Boundary Upwelling Ecosystems questions the wasp-waist trophic structure
The species diversity of the four major Eastern Boundary Upwelling Ecosystems (EBUEs) is studied and compared with the aim of better understanding their functioning. Functional groups (FGs) of organisms were defined according to their taxonomy, body size and trophic level (TL), and span from plankton to top predators. Four large sub-divisions are defined in each system: two latitudinal sub-divisions (north and south) and two zonal sub-divisions (inshore and offshore), resulting in four sub-ecosystems per EBUE. A semi-quantitative approach is used in which only the dominant species (contributing 90% of overall biomass) are considered. EBUEs are compared in regard to their species composition, dominant species richness and evenness within FGs. The data are interpreted, focusing on latitudinal, zonal and depth gradients of diversity. Trophic flows (inflow and outflow) through the small pelagic fish FG are derived from different Ecopath models. This analysis of the four ecosystems and their sub-divisions does not provide support for the expected wasp-waist food web structure and functioning, with a single or several species of small pelagic fish primarily channelling the energy flow from lower to higher TL. Instead, similar low levels of richness were observed in many FGs of intermediate TL, allowing several energy transfer pathways. The gamma diversity is high due to the geographical distance between EBUEs and the presence or absence of rivers, but not to differences in their latitudinal position. The beta diversity is also high, due to the same factors plus the variation in shelf width and the contrast between inshore and offshore sub-divisions. The differences in richness and evenness among EBUEs are minor and do not explain the higher secondary and tertiary productivity of the Humboldt ecosystem.

7/732: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/couplinglowandhightrophiclevelstowardsapathwaysorientedapproachforendtoendmodels> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Coupling low and high trophic levels: towards a pathways-oriented approach for end-to-end models
Existing models of marine ecosystems address specific issues related to the bottom-up forcing of production or to the top-down effects of fishing on a limited range of the trophic spectrum. Very few existing models explicitly incorporate the dynamics from one end of the ecosystem to the other and thus allowing the exploration of interplay between exploitation and climate effects. The shift to an ecosystem approach to fisheries and concerns about the ecological effects of climate change require the assemblage of knowledge assembled from the respective marine disciplines with the view to build end-to-end models of marine ecosystems.

Here, with a focus on plankton and fish models, we present some issues and recommendations for the integration of models between trophic levels (vertical integration) and within functional groups (horizontal integration within trophic levels). At present, vertical coupling of plankton and fish models is mainly realized through predation processes, generally represented as a functional response. In the absence of empirical evidence and quantification, the choice of the functional response term is often made by default, and is reduced to a parameterization problem. A strategy is proposed to overcome this arbitrary choice.

In addition to the vertical coupling of trophic models, the structure of end-to-end models incorporates biodiversity via horizontal integration of trophic levels. For guiding the selection of key components to be included in end-to-end models, the idea that marine food webs are structured as alternative trophic pathways is highlighted and related to observed dynamics. We suggest that an important early step in model development is the identification of major trophic pathways and bottlenecks in an ecosystem using a historical perspective.

8/733: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/dietofsardinesardinopssagaxinthenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystemandcomparisonwiththedietsofclupeoidsinthisandothereasternboundaryupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Diet of sardine (Sardinops sagax) in the northern Humboldt Current system and comparison with the diets of clupeoids in this and other eastern boundary upwelling systems
Sardines are one of the main small pelagic fish resources in eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUS) where they play an important ecological role both as a predator of plankton and as prey of top predators. Sardine trophodynamics have been relatively well studied in three of the EBUS (the Benguela, California and Canary upwelling systems) but not in the Humboldt Current system. In this paper we describe the diet of sardine Sardinops sagax in the northern Humboldt Current system (NHCS) off Peru, using an analytical method which assesses relative dietary importance in terms of estimated prey carbon content. We assessed sardine diet by examining a total of 555 stomachs collected during six surveys conducted off Peru during the period 1996–1998, and compare our results with the diet of anchoveta Engraulis ringens off Peru and with the diets of sardines from the southern Benguela (also S. sagax) and the northern Canary (Sardina pilchardus) upwelling systems. The diet of sardine off Peru is based primarily on zooplankton, similar to that observed for anchoveta but with several important differences. Firstly, sardine feed on smaller zooplankton than do anchoveta, with sardine diet consisting of smaller copepods and fewer euphausiids than anchoveta diet. Secondly, whilst phytoplankton represents <2% of sardine dietary carbon, this fraction is dominated by dinoflagellates, whereas diatoms are the dominant phytoplankton consumed by anchoveta. Hence, trophic competition between sardine and anchovy in the northern Humboldt Current system is minimized by their partitioning of the zooplankton food resource based on prey size, as has been reported in other systems. Whereas sardine in the NHCS feed on smaller zooplankton than do anchovy in that system, sardine in the NHCS forage on larger prey and obtain a substantial portion of their dietary carbon from euphausiids compared to sardine from the northern Canary and southern Benguela Current systems.

9/734: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hfradarobservationsofsurfacecirculationoffbodegabaynortherncaliforniausa> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : HF radar observations of surface circulation off Bodega Bay (northern California, USA)
[1] Two high-frequency radar stations (CODAR) were installed along the northern California coast in May 2001. Comparisons of radar data with acoustic Doppler current profiler ( ADCP) current data and near-surface drifter tracks indicate considerable agreement, with minimum RMS differences of order 0.05 - 0.15 m/s and average drifter-HF-radar track separation rates of 5 +/- 3 km/d. Radar data resolve the three main sources of intraseasonal current variability in the area: ( 1) upwelling/relaxation dynamics, ( 2) tidal and diurnal forcing, and ( 3) inertial currents. Subtidal fluctuations are the largest component of variability, accounting for 45 - 75% of the variance. Wind-driven dynamics are the dominant source of this subtidal variability (67% of subtidal variability). Both upwelling and relaxation periods exhibit consistent patterns of surface velocity, with nearshore currents being slower and more poleward than offshore currents, which are strongly equatorward. Analysis of tidal and inertial variability indicate that current fluctuations are polarized toward clockwise rotation and are generally weaker and more linearly polarized near the coast. M-2 tidal current ellipses switch direction of rotation at the shelf break, suggesting the presence of internal tidal waves. Currents in all frequency bands are deflected and accelerated around Pt. Reyes, and there are indications of increased current variability and changes in flow direction near Cordell Bank. The presence of considerable cross-shore and alongshore gradients in the strength and direction of surface flow patterns, and in particular weak poleward currents over the inner shelf, could have important consequences for plankton retention in the area.

10/735: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/schoolingbehaviourandenvironmentalforcinginrelationtoanchovetadistributionananalysisacrossmultiplespatialscales> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Schooling behaviour and environmental forcing in relation to anchoveta distribution: an analysis across multiple spatial scales
The Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) supports the highest worldwide fishery landings and varies in space and time over many scales. Here we present the first comprehensive sub-mesocale study of anchoveta distribution in relation to the environment. During November 2004, we conducted a behavioural ecology survey off central Peru and used a series of observational and sampling tools including SST and CO2 sensors, Niskin bottles, CTD probes, zooplankton sampling, stomach content analysis, echo-sounder, multibeam sonar, and bird observations. The sub-mesoscale survey areas were chosen from mesoscale acoustic surveys. A routine coast-wide (not, vert, similar2000 km) acoustic survey performed just after the sub-mesoscale surveys, provided information at an even larger population scale. The availability of nearly concurrent sub-mesoscale, mesoscale and coast-wide information on anchoveta distribution allowed for a unique multi-scale synthesis. At the sub-mesoscale (100s m to km) physical processes (internal waves and frontogenesis) concentrated plankton into patches and determined anchoveta spatial distribution. At the mesoscale (10s km) location relative to the zone of active upwelling (and age of the upwelled water) and the depth of the oxycline had strong impacts on the anchoveta. Finally, over 100s km the size of the productive area, as defined by the upwelled cold coastal waters, was the determining factor. We propose a conceptual view of the relative importance of social behaviour and environmental (biotic and abiotic) processes on the spatial distribution of anchoveta. Our ecological space has two y-axis; one based on self-organization (social behaviour), and the other based on the environmental processes. At scales from the individual (10s cm), to the nucleus (m), social behaviour (e.g. the need to school) drives spatial organization. At scales larger than the school, environmental forces are the main driver of fish distribution. The conceptual ecosystem models presented in this paper may provide the final links needed to develop accurate forecasts of the spatial distribution of anchoveta over multiple scales.

11/736: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystempartiielucidatingecosystemdynamicsfromtowithafocusontheimpactofenso> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part II: Elucidating ecosystem dynamics from 1995 to 2004 with a focus on the impact of ENSO
The Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem is one of the most productive in the world in terms of fish production. Its location near to the equator permits strong upwelling under relatively low winds, thus creating optimal conditions for the development of plankton communities. These communities ultimately support abundant populations of grazing fish such as the Peruvian anchoveta, Engraulis ringens. The ecosystem is also subject to strong inter-annual environmental variability associated with the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO), which has major effects on nutrient structure, primary production, and higher trophic levels. Here our objective is to model the contributions of several external drivers (i.e. reconstructed phytoplankton changes, fish immigration, and fishing rate) and internal control mechanisms (i.e. predator-prey) to ecosystem dynamics over an ENSO cycle. Steady-state models and timeseries data from the Instituto del Mar del Perú (IMARPE) from 1995 to 2004 provide the base data for simulations conducted with the program Ecopath with Ecosim. In simulations all three external drivers contribute to ecosystem dynamics. Changes in phytoplankton quantity and composition (i.e. contribution of diatoms and dino- and silicoflagellates), as affected by upwelling intensity, were important in dynamics of the El Niño of 1997–98 and the subsequent 3 years. The expansion and immigration of mesopelagic fish populations during El Niño was important for dynamics in following years. Fishing rate changes were the most important of the three external drivers tested, helping to explain observed dynamics throughout the modeled period, and particularly during the post-El Niño period. Internal control settings show a mix of predator–prey control settings; however a ‘‘wasp-waist” control of the ecosystem by small pelagic fish is not supported.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

12/737: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatiotemporalvariabilityinfishinducedpredationmortalityonplanktonasimulationapproachusingacoupledtrophicmodelofthebenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 1.253645
Doc : Spatio-temporal variability in fish-induced predation mortality on plankton. A simulation approach using a coupled trophic model of the Benguela ecosystem
We investigate the potential predation pressure that would affect plankton communities spatially and seasonally using a coupled model, where fish-induced predation mortality is explicit. In the southern Benguela ecosystem, the fish model OSMOSE is forced by a biogeochemical model providing plankton prey fields. We analyse the resulting potential predation mortality rate on copepods. Spatially, this mortality rate is higher on the South coast (Agulhas bank) than on the West coast (upwelling zone), reflecting a lower plankton concentration compared to food requirement for fish. Temporally, fish-induced predation mortality decreases at the beginning of the upwelling season, due to a rapid increase of plankton concentration combined with a lag in the subsequent increase of fish biomass. Such strong spatio-temporal patterns in fish-induced predation mortality encourage the development of two-ways coupling between fish and plankton models for better representing the dynamics of the southern Benguela food web.

13/738: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/revisitingperuviananchovyengraulisringenstrophodynamicsprovidesanewvisionofthehumboldtcurrentsystem> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Revisiting Peruvian anchovy (Engraulis ringens) trophodynamics provides a new vision of the Humboldt Current system
The Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) forages on plankton and is a main prey for marine mammals, seabirds, fish, and fishers, and is therefore a key element of the food web in the Humboldt Current system (HCS). Here, we present results from the analysis of 21,203 anchoveta stomach contents sampled during 23 acoustic surveys over the period 1996–2003. Prey items were identified to the genus level, and the relative dietary importance of different prey was assessed by determination of their carbon content. Variability in stomach fullness was examined relative to the diel cycle, the distance from the coast, sea surface temperature, and latitude, using generalized additive models (GAMs). Whereas phytoplankton largely dominated anchoveta diets in terms of numerical abundance and comprised >99% of ingested prey items, the carbon content of prey items indicated that zooplankton was by far the most important dietary component, with euphausiids contributing 67.5% of dietary carbon followed by copepods (26.3%). Stomach fullness data showed that anchoveta feed mainly during daytime between 07h00 and 18h00, although night-time feeding also made a substantial contribution to total food consumption. Stomach fullness also varied with latitude, distance from the coast, and temperature, but with substantial variability indicating a high degree of plasticity in anchoveta feeding behaviour. The results suggest an ecological role for anchoveta that challenges current understanding of its position in the foodweb, the functioning of the HCS, and trophic models of the HCS.
©2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

14/739: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystemparticomparingtrophiclinkagesunderlaninaandelninoconditions> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part I: Comparing trophic linkages under La Niña and El Niño conditions
The El Niño of 1997–98 was one of the strongest warming events of the past century; among many other effects, it impacted phytoplankton along the Peruvian coast by changing species composition and reducing biomass. While responses of the main fish resources to this natural perturbation are relatively well known, understanding the ecosystem response as a whole requires an ecotrophic multispecies approach. In this work, we construct trophic models of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem (NHCE) and compare the La Niña (LN) years in 1995–96 with the El Niño (EN) years in 1997–98. The model area extends from 4°S–16°S and to 60 nm from the coast. The model consists of 32 functional groups of organisms and differs from previous trophic models of the Peruvian system through: (i) division of plankton into size classes to account for EN-associated changes and feeding preferences of small pelagic fish, (ii) increased division of demersal groups and separation of life history stages of hake, (iii) inclusion of mesopelagic fish, and (iv) incorporation of the jumbo squid (Dosidicus gigas), which became abundant following EN. Results show that EN reduced the size and organization of energy flows of the NHCE, but the overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators, detritus and export) of the ecosystem was maintained. The reduction of diatom biomass during EN forced omnivorous planktivorous fish to switch to a more zooplankton-dominated diet, raising their trophic level. Consequently, in the EN model the trophic level increased for several predatory groups (mackerel, other large pelagics, sea birds, pinnipeds) and for fishery catch. A high modeled biomass of macrozooplankton was needed to balance the consumption by planktivores, especially during EN condition when observed diatoms biomass diminished dramatically. Despite overall lower planktivorous fish catches, the higher primary production required-to-catch ratio implied a stronger ecological impact of the fishery and stresses the need for precautionary management of fisheries during and after EN. During EN energetic indicators such as the lower primary production/total biomass ratio suggest a more energetically efficient ecosystem, while reduced network indicators such as the cycling index and relative ascendency indicate of a less organized state of the ecosystem. Compared to previous trophic models of the NHCE we observed: (i) a shrinking of ecosystem size in term of energy flows, (ii) slight changes in overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators and detritus), and (iii) the use of alternate pathways leading to a higher ecological impact of the fishery for planktivorous fish.

15/740: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/westanortherncaliforniastudyoftheroleofwinddriventransportintheproductivityofcoastalplanktoncommunities> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : WEST: A northern California study of the role of wind-driven transport in the productivity of coastal plankton communities
The ‶Wind Events and Shelf Transport'' (WEST) program was an interdisciplinary study of coastal upwelling off northern California in 2000-03. WEST was comprised of modeling and field observations. The primary goal of WEST was to better describe and understand the competing influences of wind forcing on planktonic productivity in coastal waters. While increased upwelling-favorable winds lead to increased nutrient supply, they also result in reduced light exposure due to deeper surface mixed layers and increased advective loss of plankton from coastal waters. The key to understanding high levels of productivity, amidst these competing responses to wind forcing, is the temporal and spatial structure of upwelling. Temporal fluctuations and spatial patterns allow strong upwelling that favors nutrient delivery to be juxtaposed with less energetic conditions that favor stratification and plankton blooms. Observations of winds, ocean circulation, nutrients, phytoplankton and zooplankton off Bodega Bay and Point Reyes (38 degrees N) were combined with model studies of winds, circulation and productivity. This overview of the WEST program provides an introduction to the WEST special issue of Deep-Sea Research, including the motivation for WEST, a summary of study components, an integrative synthesis of major research results to-date, and background on conditions during field studies in May-June 2001 (the upwelling period on which this special issue is focused). (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All. rights reserved.



796) Recherche du mot : tuniciers pélagiques (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/salpes)


797) Recherche du mot : Grimalditeuthis bonplandi (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/grimalditeuthis_bonplandi)


798) Recherche du mot : Euthynnus affinis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/euthynnus_affinis)


799) Recherche du mot : Taaningia danae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/taaningia_danae)


800) Recherche du mot : Comète saumon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/elagatis_bipinnulata)


801) Recherche du mot : Decapterus brachycephalus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/decapterus_brachycephalus)


802) Recherche du mot : abiotic element (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/abiotic_element)


803) Recherche du mot : Escolar negro (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lepidocybium_flavobrunneum)


804) Recherche du mot : skipjack tuna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/katsuwonus_pelamis)
1/741: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.

2/742: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitelinkedacousticreceiverstoobservebehavioroffishesinremoteareas> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Satellite-linked acoustic receivers to observe behavior of fishes in remote areas
Automated acoustic receivers are now widely used by biologists to study the behavior of fish. However, currently available acoustic receivers require physical recovery of the units to download stored data. Such operation is often difficult in remote study areas like in the open ocean. We present a new satellite-linked acoustic receiver (Vemco VR3-Argos) that allows downloading data through a satellite uplink (Argos). The VR3-Argos can last up to one year, sending GPS positions and tag data at regular time intervals. We illustrate the advantages of this new technology with tagging data from 121 fish of seven species (yellowfin tuna, bigeye tuna, skipjack tuna, wahoo, dolphinfish, silky shark and oceanic triggerfish) caught and released around drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean, far from any land. In opposition with the classic acoustic receivers (Vemco VR2), the use of VR3-Argos allowed to collect data for several weeks after leaving the drifting FADs. Maximum residence times of 3 days for bigeye tuna, 7 days for skipjack, 8 days for wahoo, 10 days for silky shark and 15 days for yellowfin tuna, dolphinfish and oceanic triggerfish could be recorded. VR2 and VR3-Argos are equivalent in terms of quality of residence times data, however depth data obtained through satellites are aggregated in 8 classes for compression purposes, which leads to a loss of precision available with raw data. Future directions of this technology are discussed.

3/743: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabiladultothunnusalbacaresdelaflotadecercotropicaleuropeaeneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Actualizacion de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil adulto (thunnus albacares) de la flota de cerco tropical europea en el oceano atlantico de 1980 a 2006
This document presents a standardized index update of adult yellowfin (>30 kg) of tropical purse seine fleets in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006. The data used were taken from spear fishing logbooks and detailed information of the fleet. The standardization has been carried out by generalized linear models (GLM) using the delta model. The standardized indices are obtained from the GLM model estimations: one is calculated from the least squares means (LSMeans) and another from the annual averages of the adjusted values. The variability of the latter is lower. Therefore, in this case, it is a more adequate index to be used in assessment models. The year, country, category, age of vessel and catches of skipjack tuna, which is the other target species of these fleets, were considered as explanatory variables.

4/744: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/driftingfishaggregationdevicescouldactasanecologicaltrapfortropicaltunaspecies> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Drifting fish aggregation devices could act as an ecological trap for tropical tuna species
Purse seine fishing on fish aggregating devices (FADs) has expanded considerably during
the last 15 yr in tropical tuna purse seine fisheries, and FADs currently account for about 70% of
their reported tuna catches. The scientific community has expressed concern over the consequences
of this fishing practice in terms of yield per recruit and suspected detrimental effects on FADassociated
tunas. To explore possible detrimental effects, we compared stomach fullness, fish plumpness,
growth rate, and migration behaviour between free school and drifting FAD-associated tunas
for skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis and yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares caught in the Atlantic
and Indian Oceans. Significant differences in fish plumpness and individual growth rates were found,
suggesting that individuals associated with drifting FADs were less healthy than those in free schools.
Since stomach fullness indicated that tunas associated with FADs eat less than those in free schools,
the difference in growth rate and condition could be the consequence of altered feeding patterns. For
each species, significant changes in migratory direction and displacement rates were observed in the
presence of drifting FADs. These findings support the hypothesis that FADs act as a super-stimulus,
misleading tunas to make inappropriate habitat selection. However, further studies are required to
investigate the long-term effect of FADs on the entire life cycle of tunas.

5/745: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimatedgrowthrateoftheskipjacktunakatsuwonuspelamisfromtaggingsurveysconductedinthesenegaleseareawithinametaanalysisframeworkcoll> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Estimated growth rate of the Skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis) from tagging surveys conducted in the Senegalese area (1996-1999) within a meta-analysis framework Coll
Tagging data obtained during the research program called MAC are reanalyzed for skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis), using the von Bertalanffy-Fabens' growth model. Tagging surveys were initiated during 1996-1999 on-board commercial baitboats in Mauritanian and Senegalese waters. The analyses include the Francis' maximum likelihood estimation approaches accounting for growth variability as a function of the expected growth increment. Bearing in mind the generally high negative correlation between estimates of L∞ and K, and instead of fixing L∞ at an arbitrary level, we expressed L∞ as a simple function of K within a meta-analysis framework. Based on previous estimates of growth parameters for skipjack in the world ocean, the fit of this bioenergetic growth equation gave the following relationship: L∞ = 70.607 K – 0.231. An alternative von Bertalanffy-Fabens' growth model was used in which to L∞ was substituted by this function of K. After the comparison of different error structure models, the estimates corresponding to the best fit under the AIC criteria were obtained for K = 0.251 and, after re-introducing this value in the bioenergetic equation, L∞ = 97.258. These results are not in agreement with growth parameter estimates obtained previously in the same part of the Atlantic Ocean but are consistent with the majority of growth estimates obtained by other investigators using tagging, hard part or length-frequency data. The application of the Francis variance model suggests that the variability of the growth increment of skipjack is not constant.

6/746: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofthegrowthparametersoftheskipjacktunakatsuwonuspelamisamongareasintheeasternatlanticanalysisfromtaggingdatawithinametaanalysisapproach> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Variability of the growth parameters of the skipjack tuna (/Katsuwonus pelamis/) among areas in the eastern Atlantic: Analysis from tagging data within a meta-analysis approach
In order to assess the latitudinal variability in growth of the eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), conventional tagging data collected by the International Commission of the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) since the 1960s are reanalyzed using a modified version of the von Bertalanffy-Fabens growth model. An analysis of the latitudinal patterns of recaptures showed that the lowest mixing rate between northern and southern regions was evidenced at 10◦ N Latitude. Since it is theoretically admitted that growth parameters L∞ and K are negatively correlated, we substituted L∞ into the growth equation model by a simple bioenergetic function of K fitted from existing studies on skipjack growth parameters. The likelihood for the meta-analysis of growth is combined with the likelihoods from the two regional tagging data with the aim of estimating simultaneously K in both areas and to transfer adequately uncertainties associated with the different data sets. From this study, it was showed that fish inhabiting waters south of 10◦ N latitude can be expected to grow generally larger but at slower rate than in the North (L∞ = 112.34 cm vs. 89.38 cm, and K = 0.14 vs. 0.38, respectively). Our results are consistent with the range of growth estimates obtained in the Atlantic Ocean and in different parts of the World's oceans. In contrast, the estimates of L∞ and K done in the Senegalese region in the 1980s within the framework of the Skipjack Year Program, and traditionally applied by ICCAT, are not supported by the present study. The findings concerning the phenotypic plasticity exhibited by growth of skipjack among latitudinal regions suggest potential differences in fish population productivity and consequently imply that non-conventional stock assessment methods such as catch-at size/growth transition matrix per region could be used to assess the responses of skipjack to exploitation.

7/747: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anadvectiondiffusionreactionsizestructuredfishpopulationdynamicsmodelcombinedwithastatisticalparameterestimationprocedureapplicationtotheindianoceanskipjacktunafishery> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : An advection-diffusion-reaction size-structured fish population dynamics model combined with a statistical parameter estimation procedure: Application to the Indian Ocean skipjack tuna fishery
We develop an advection-di®usion size-structured ¯sh population
dynamics model and apply it to simulate the skipjack tuna population in the
Indian Ocean. The model is fully spatialized, and movements are parame-
terized with oceanographical and biological data; thus it naturally reacts to
environment changes. We ¯rst formulate an initial-boundary value problem
and prove existence of a unique positive solution. We then discuss the numer-
ical scheme chosen for the integration of the simulation model. In a second
step we address the parameter estimation problem for such a model. With
the help of automatic di®erentiation, we derive the adjoint code which is used
to compute the exact gradient of a Bayesian cost function measuring the dis-
tance between the outputs of the model and catch and length frequency data.
A sensitivity analysis shows that not all parameters can be estimated from the
data. Finally twin experiments in which pertubated parameters are recovered
from simulated data are successfully conducted.



805) Recherche du mot : le rôle, la nature ou l'effet d'une interaction sur une autre (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/role_related_interaction)


806) Recherche du mot : caouanne (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/caretta_caretta)


807) Recherche du mot : Abraliopsis sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/abraliopsis_sp)


808) Recherche du mot : Primary Production (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/primaryProduction)
1/748: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophodynamicindicatorsforanecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Trophodynamic indicators for an ecosystem approach to fisheries
Acknowledging ecological interactions, such as predation, is key to an ecosystem approach to fisheries. Trophodynamic indicators are needed to measure the strength of the interactions between the different living components, and of structural ecosystem changes resulting from exploitation. We review trophodynamic indicators derived from models, as well as from emergent patterns such as trophic cascades and regime shifts. From 46 indicators identified in the literature, six (catch or biomass ratios, primary production required to support catch, production or consumption ratios and predation mortality, trophic level of the catch, fishing-in-balance, and mixed trophic impact) were selected because of their ability to reveal ecosystem-level patterns, and because they match published criteria. This suite of indicators is applied to the northern and southern Benguela ecosystems, and their performance is evaluated to depict drastic and contrasted ecosystem changes. A few complementary indicators are suggested as needed to detect the trophodynamic impacts of fisheries and ecosystem changes. Trends in indicators are sensitive to the choice of trophic level made for certain species. Trophodynamic indicators appear to be conservative, because they respond slowly to large structural changes in an ecosystem. Application of the selected indicators to other marine ecosystems is encouraged so as to evaluate fully their usefulness to an ecosystem approach to fisheries, and to establish international comparability.
©2004 International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. Published by  Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

2/749: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trendsinprimaryproductionseasurfacetemperatureandwindinupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 1.4183372
Doc : Trends in primary production, sea surface temperature and wind in upwelling systems (1998-2007)
We take advantage of the longest high quality single-sensor global data set of ocean color available today to explore recent trends in the primary productivity of the main eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUEs): California, Canary, Humboldt and Benguela. The chlorophyll-a concentration is used as a proxy for primary production. SST data from AVHRR and wind speed data from QuikSCAT are used in conjunction with this data set to analyse forcing mechanisms explaining the chlorophyll biomass.
Whereas the worldwide primary-production biomass shows on average decreasing trends, as already observed in the stratified part of the worldwide ocean, the productivity of most EBUEs increases during the study period. These contrasting trends are both significant, at least for the mid latitude range of 50°S-50°N, where the data coverage is sufficient for accurate estimation.
Probably due to the large scale atmospheric forcing, trends in sea surface temperature (SST) show non-significant relationships with the trends in biomass within upwelling systems, suggesting that SST anomalies cannot be used as an indicator of change in upwelling intensity in a continuous warming context. On the other hand, upwelling favourable equatorward winds show a significant correlation with the observed trends in biomass, suggesting that the trends in the trade winds are probably linked to an increase in the intensity of the Hadley cell circulation observed during the last several decades.

3/750: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofapecosmaspatializedmassbalancedapexpredatorsecosystemmodeltostudyphysiologicallystructuredtunapopulationdynamicsintheirecosystem> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : An overview of APECOSM, a Spatialized Mass Balanced “Apex Predators ECOSystem Model” to Study Physiologically Structured Tuna Population Dynamics in their Ecosystem
This paper gives an overview of the ecosystem model APECOSM (Apex Predators ECOSystem Model) which is developed in the framework of the GLOBEC-CLIOTOP Programme. APECOSM represents the flow of energy through the ecosystem with a size-resolved structure in both space and time. The uptake and use of energy for growth, maintenance and reproduction by the organisms are modelled according to the DEB (dynamic energy budget) theory (Kooijmann, 2000) and the size-structured nature of predation is explicit. The pelagic community is divided into epipelagic and mesopelagic groups, the latter being subdivided into vertically migrant and non-migrant species. The model is mass-conservative. Energy is provided as the basis of the model through primary production and transferred through 3D spatially explicit size-spectra. Focus species (tunas at present, but any predator species can be considered) are “extracted” from the global size-spectra without losing mass balance and represented with more physiological and behavioural details. The forcing effects of temperature, currents, light, oxygen, primary production and fishing are explicitly taken into account.

4/751: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingapproachtoregimeshiftsofprimaryproductioninshallowcoastalecosystems> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Modeling approach to regime shifts of primary production in shallow coastal ecosystems
Pristine coastal shallow systems are usually dominated by extensive meadows of seagrass species, which are assumed to take advantage of nutrient supply from sediment. An increasing nutrient input is thought to favour phytoplankton, epiphytic microalgae, aswell as opportunistic ephemeral macroalgae that coexist with seagrasses. The primary cause of shifts and succession in the macrophyte community is the increase of nutrient load to water; however, temperature plays also an important role. A competition model between rooted seagrass (Zostera marina), macroalgae (Ulva sp.), and phytoplankton has been developed to analyse the succession of primary producer communities in these systems. Successions of dominance states, with different resilience ;characteristics, are found when modifying the input of nutrients and the seasonal temperature and light intensity forcing.
© 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

5/752: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/primaryproductionandspatialdistributionofsubtidalmicrophytobenthosinatemperatecoastalsystemthebayofbrestfrance> : SCORE = 1.8310655
Doc : Primary production and spatial distribution of subtidal microphytobenthos in a temperate coastal system, the Bay of Brest, France
The main objective of this study was to define the primary production and the spatial and temporal distribution of the subtidal microphytobenthic community in a temperate coastal ecosystem, the Bay of Brest. The productivity of the microphytobenthos (MPB) was estimated in winter, spring and late summer, by a series of in situ benthic chamber incubations. Oxygen (O2) and dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) fluxes were measured at the sediment–water interface in light and dark conditions to determine the net and gross primary production present. Functional regression of the O2 and DIC data demonstrated that the community photosynthetic quotient (CPQ) for the benthic community was 1. A maximal gross production (Pmax) of between 0.4 and 0.8 mmol O2 mg chl a−1 h−1 was estimated for the MPB in the Bay. EK values were low, ranging from 57.8 to 83.4 μmol photons m−2 s−1 and can be considered an adaptation of the MPB to the reduced light levels reaching the sediment–water interface. Two sampling campaigns were undertaken in winter and late summer to measure the biomass of the benthic microalgal community in the Bay. Productivity estimates were combined with this biomass to give the MPB production in all areas of the Bay. Principal components analysis revealed that stations sampled were grouped primarily as a function of their depth, highlighting the importance above all of light availability, and their sediment type, with highest biomass concentrations found in bare muddy sediments. Hierarchical classification allowed the determination of four groups of stations in the Bay defined by their biotic and abiotic differences. The importance of the gastropod Crepidula fornicata in conditioning the benthic structural and biochemical environment was also highlighted. Geographical information systems based mapping allowed the representation of the spatial and temporal distribution of biomass and primary production and consequently a determination of the overall MPB production. Average seasonal production estimates for the Bay of Brest ranged from 57 in winter to 111 mg C m−2 day−1 in late summer and represented from 12–20% of total primary production.

6/753: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/alongshoreandtemporalvariabilityinchlorophyllaconcentrationinchileannearshorewaters> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Alongshore and temporal variability in chlorophyll a concentration in Chilean nearshore waters
Phytoplankton and particulate organic matter constitute the primary food source for adult filter-feeders, as well as for larval stages of many benthic and pelagic organisms. The structure and dynamics of nearshore benthic communities may be associated with variation in nearshore primary production. However, we know little about the scales of variability in phytoplankton in nearshore waters along open coasts, or about their causes. To characterize spatial and temporal patterns of chl a concentration, we conducted 2.5 yr of daily, shore-based monitoring at 3 sites separated by 10s of km within an upwelling region in central Chile. We found that: (1) peaks in chl a concentration were typically short-lived, persisting no longer than 4 d, (2) blooms occurred in spring to early summer months at all sites, but also during autumn months at 1 site (Las Cruces), and (3) the intensity and frequency of blooms were consistently different among sites; highest concentrations were at Las Cruces, lower at El Quisco, and the lowest at Quintay. Analyses of wind data and surface temperature, and inspection of Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) satellite images, suggested that among-site differences were due, at least in part, to alongshore variation in upwelling intensity and the formation of warm-water pockets or upwelling shadows in sections of the coast, such as Las Cruces. In contrast to the spatial pattern described offshore and over larger spatial scales, chl a concentrations were significantly lower at the coldest site, Quintay, located at the core of an upwelling center (Pta. Curaumilla), than at the warmer site of Las Cruces, which lies downstream from upwelling. Day-to-day variation in chl a levels during spring at Las Cruces seems related to the alongshore intrusion of waters upwelled upstream. Overall, the pattern observed at our 3 sites, together with previous studies at other upwelling systems, suggests that sections of the coast around 15 to 20 km downstream (equatorward) from upwelling centers could exhibit consistently higher phytoplankton concentrations than sites located in front of upwelling centers, generating a source-sink type of geographic pattern of nearshore nutrients and phytoplankton along the coast.

7/754: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystembriefhistorypresentstatusandaviewtowardsthefuture> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : The northern Humboldt Current System: Brief history, present status and a view towards the future
INTRODUCTION 
The tropical ocean off the west coast of South America is notable for several reasons. First, it is unusually cool for an ocean that is so close to the equator with sea surface temperatures at 5 °S off Peru as cool as 16 °C when most other tropical locations are in excess of 25 °C. Upwelling of cool waters brings phytoplankton nutrients to the surface, dramatically increasing biological productivity in this low-latitude region of few storms. Second, as a result of the enhanced productivity, the northern Humboldt Current System (HCS) off Peru produces more fish per unit area than any other region in the world oceans (Fig. 1), representing less than 0.1% of the world ocean surface but presently producing about 10% of the world fish catch. Third, as a result of sinking and decay of surface-derived primary production and poor ventilation, surface oxygenated waters overlie an intense and extremely shallow Oxygen Minimum Zone (OMZ). The OMZ forms a barrier to some animals, concentrating living resources near the surface. At the other end of the spectrum different forms of marine life have adapted to this harsh environment, some utilizing it as a refuge from predation. The OMZ also affects global nutrient budgets, as nitrate instead of oxygen is used by bacteria as a terminal electron acceptor. Fourth, beneath the OMZ, in layered continental shelf sediments the absence of oxygen preserves dead organisms, creating a record of past ecosystem and climate changes. Fifth, through ocean/atmosphere coupling, the northern HCS is intimately linked to equatorial Pacific dynamics and is subject to large interannual to multidecadal fluctuations in climate, ecosystems and its fisheries.

8/755: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragingstrategyofatropicalseabirdtheredfootedboobyinadynamicmarineenvironment> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Foraging strategy of a tropical seabird, the red-footed booby, in a dynamic marine environment
The foraging behaviour of animals depends on the distribution, abundance and predictability
of their food resources. In the marine environment, top predators such as seabirds are
known to concentrate their foraging effort in specific oceanic features where productivity is elevated
or prey concentrated. When marine productivity is low and prey distribution unpredictable, such as
in tropical waters, selection should favour the evolution of flexible foraging strategies. By using GPS,
Argos transmitters and activity recorders, we studied the foraging strategy of red-footed boobies
(RFBs) Sula sula breeding on Europa Island in the Mozambique Channel, to examine the way a central
place forager searches for prey in tropical waters. RFBs only foraged during the day-time and
never sat on the water at night; thus, they consequently had a limited maximum foraging range of
148 km. Primary production within this range was low overall (average 0.165 mg chlorophyll m–3),
with a high spatial and temporal heterogeneity due to the presence of strong geostrophic currents
and surface mixing by storms. RFBs appear to adjust their foraging strategy to cope with this situation.
Individual birds do not return to the same oceanic sites from one trip to the next, but generally
head in the direction of zones where productivity is enhanced. Active foraging, i.e. periods when
birds spent time on the sea surface or dived, occurred at the most distant part of the foraging trip.
Despite their limited foraging range and the low productivity of surrounding waters, red-footed boobies
are able to track zones of prey availability located in areas of enhanced primary production.
Searching is probably favoured by the presence of sub-surface predators that chase prey to the surface.
The foraging strategy of this tropical sulid appears to differ extensively from that of temperate
or polar seabirds whose prey distribution and availability are more predictable.

9/756: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystempartiielucidatingecosystemdynamicsfromtowithafocusontheimpactofenso> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part II: Elucidating ecosystem dynamics from 1995 to 2004 with a focus on the impact of ENSO
The Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem is one of the most productive in the world in terms of fish production. Its location near to the equator permits strong upwelling under relatively low winds, thus creating optimal conditions for the development of plankton communities. These communities ultimately support abundant populations of grazing fish such as the Peruvian anchoveta, Engraulis ringens. The ecosystem is also subject to strong inter-annual environmental variability associated with the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO), which has major effects on nutrient structure, primary production, and higher trophic levels. Here our objective is to model the contributions of several external drivers (i.e. reconstructed phytoplankton changes, fish immigration, and fishing rate) and internal control mechanisms (i.e. predator-prey) to ecosystem dynamics over an ENSO cycle. Steady-state models and timeseries data from the Instituto del Mar del Perú (IMARPE) from 1995 to 2004 provide the base data for simulations conducted with the program Ecopath with Ecosim. In simulations all three external drivers contribute to ecosystem dynamics. Changes in phytoplankton quantity and composition (i.e. contribution of diatoms and dino- and silicoflagellates), as affected by upwelling intensity, were important in dynamics of the El Niño of 1997–98 and the subsequent 3 years. The expansion and immigration of mesopelagic fish populations during El Niño was important for dynamics in following years. Fishing rate changes were the most important of the three external drivers tested, helping to explain observed dynamics throughout the modeled period, and particularly during the post-El Niño period. Internal control settings show a mix of predator–prey control settings; however a ‘‘wasp-waist” control of the ecosystem by small pelagic fish is not supported.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

10/757: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystemparticomparingtrophiclinkagesunderlaninaandelninoconditions> : SCORE = 1.013309
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part I: Comparing trophic linkages under La Niña and El Niño conditions
The El Niño of 1997–98 was one of the strongest warming events of the past century; among many other effects, it impacted phytoplankton along the Peruvian coast by changing species composition and reducing biomass. While responses of the main fish resources to this natural perturbation are relatively well known, understanding the ecosystem response as a whole requires an ecotrophic multispecies approach. In this work, we construct trophic models of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem (NHCE) and compare the La Niña (LN) years in 1995–96 with the El Niño (EN) years in 1997–98. The model area extends from 4°S–16°S and to 60 nm from the coast. The model consists of 32 functional groups of organisms and differs from previous trophic models of the Peruvian system through: (i) division of plankton into size classes to account for EN-associated changes and feeding preferences of small pelagic fish, (ii) increased division of demersal groups and separation of life history stages of hake, (iii) inclusion of mesopelagic fish, and (iv) incorporation of the jumbo squid (Dosidicus gigas), which became abundant following EN. Results show that EN reduced the size and organization of energy flows of the NHCE, but the overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators, detritus and export) of the ecosystem was maintained. The reduction of diatom biomass during EN forced omnivorous planktivorous fish to switch to a more zooplankton-dominated diet, raising their trophic level. Consequently, in the EN model the trophic level increased for several predatory groups (mackerel, other large pelagics, sea birds, pinnipeds) and for fishery catch. A high modeled biomass of macrozooplankton was needed to balance the consumption by planktivores, especially during EN condition when observed diatoms biomass diminished dramatically. Despite overall lower planktivorous fish catches, the higher primary production required-to-catch ratio implied a stronger ecological impact of the fishery and stresses the need for precautionary management of fisheries during and after EN. During EN energetic indicators such as the lower primary production/total biomass ratio suggest a more energetically efficient ecosystem, while reduced network indicators such as the cycling index and relative ascendency indicate of a less organized state of the ecosystem. Compared to previous trophic models of the NHCE we observed: (i) a shrinking of ecosystem size in term of energy flows, (ii) slight changes in overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators and detritus), and (iii) the use of alternate pathways leading to a higher ecological impact of the fishery for planktivorous fish.

11/758: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactofclimateoneelpopulationsofthenorthernhemisphere> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Impact of climate on eel populations of the Northern Hemisphere
Glass eel abundances are declining worldwide. This has mostly been attributed to direct impacts of human activities such as overfishing or habitat loss and degradation, whilst the potential influence of changes in oceanic conditions has received less attention. Eel are characterized by a complex and still enigmatic life cycle that includes a trans-oceanic spawning and larval migration. The apparent synchrony in the decline of eel populations worldwide suggests that the oceanic mechanisms involved are similar for all populations. We analyse the relationships between oceanic conditions in eel spawning areas and glass eel recruitment success of the 3 most commercially important species of the genus Anguilla: A. anguilla, A. rostrata, and A. japonica. We provide evidence that the survival of eel larvae is strongly correlated with food availability during their early life stages. Over the last 4 decades, changes in the marine production related to global warming may have led to the decline of European, American and Japanese eel populations. In the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, the shifts in the temperature regime detected in the late 1970s were followed by shifts in the recruitment regime of glass eel for the 3 species. The decrease in primary production through climate-driven processes has therefore affected the recruitment of eel populations

12/759: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/phytoplanktondistributionintheagulhassystemfromacoupledphysicalbiologicalmodel> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Phytoplankton distribution in the Agulhas system from a coupled physical-biological model
The greater Agulhas Current system has several components with high mesoscale turbulence. The phytoplankton distribution in the southwest Indian Ocean reflects this activity. We have used a regional eddy-permitting, coupled physical-biological model to study the physical-biological interactions and to address the main processes responsible for phytoplankton distribution in three different biogeochemical provinces: the southwest Subtropical Indian Gyre (SWSIG), the subtropical convergence zone (SCZ) and the subantarctic waters (SAW) south of South Africa. The biological model with four compartments (Nitrate-Phytoplankton-Zooplankton-Detritus) adequately reproduces the observed field of chlorophyll a. The phase of the strong modelled seasonality in the SWSIG is opposite to that of the SCZ that forms the southern boundary of the subtropical gyre. Phytoplankton concentrations are governed by the source-minus-sink terms, which are one order of magnitude greater than the dynamical diffusion and advection terms. North of 35°S, in the SWSIG, phytoplankton growth is limited by nutrients supply throughout the year. However, deeper stratification, enhanced cross-frontal transport and higher detritus remineralization explain the simulated higher concentrations of phytoplankton found in winter in the SWSIG. The region between 35° and 40S constitutes a transition zone between the SCZ and the oligotrophic subtropical province. Horizontal advection is the main process bringing nutrients for phytoplankton growth. The front at 34 °S represents a dynamical barrier to an extension further to the north of this advection of nutrients. Within the SCZ, primary production is high during spring and summer. This high productivity depletes the nutrient standing stock built up during winter time. In winter, nutrients supply in the convergence zone is indeed large, but the deep mixing removes phytoplankton from the euphotic zone and inhibits photosynthesis, yielding lower surface chlorophyll a concentrations. Waters south of the Subantarctic Front have a summer biomass close to that of frontal waters and higher than for subtropical waters. However, these simulated concentrations are slightly higher than the observed ones suggesting that limitation by iron and/or silica may play a role.

13/760: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingenvironmentaleffectsonthesizestructuredenergyflowthroughmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Modeling environmental effects on the size-structured energy flow through marine ecosystems.
This paper presents an original size-structured mathematical model of the energy flow through marine ecosystems, based on established ecological and physiological processes and mass conservation principles. The model is based on a nonlocal partial differential equation which represents the transfer of energy in both time and body weight (size) in marine ecosystems. The processes taken into account include size-based opportunistic trophic interactions, competition for food, allocation of energy between growth and reproduction, somatic and maturity maintenance, predatory and starvation mortality. All the physiological rates are temperature-dependent. The physiological bases of the model are derived from the dynamic energy budget theory. The model outputs the dynamic size-spectrum of marine ecosystems in term of energy content per weight class as well as many other size-dependent diagnostic variables such as growth rate, egg production or predation mortality.

In stable environmental conditions and using a reference set of parameters derived from empirical studies, the model converges toward a stationary linear log–log size-spectrum with a slope equal to −1.06, which is consistent with the values reported in empirical studies. In some cases, the distribution of the largest sizes departs from the stationary linear solution and is slightly curved downward. A sensitivity analysis to the parameters is conducted systematically. It shows that the stationary size-spectrum is not very sensitive to the parameters of the model. Numerical simulations of the effects of temperature and primary production variability on marine ecosystems size-spectra are provided in a companion paper [Maury, O., Shin, Y.-J., Faugeras, B., Ben Ari, T., Marsac, F., 2007. Modeling environmental effects on the size-structured energy flow through marine ecosystems. Part 2: simulations. Progress in Oceanography,

14/761: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/generalisedmodelofprimaryproductioninthesouthernbenguelaupwellingsystem> : SCORE = 1.8310655
Doc : Generalised model of primary production in the southern Benguela upwelling system
We provide a proof-of-concept demonstration using a novel method for estimating depth-integrated distributions of chlorophyll from archives of data from ships, buoys or gliders combined with remotely sensed data of sea surface temperature (SST) and surface chlorophyll a (chl a) from satellites. Our area of application has contrasting hydrographic regimes, which include the dynamic southern Benguela upwelling system and the stratified waters of the Agulhas Bank, South Africa. The method involves using self-organising maps (SOMs), a type of artificial neural network, to identify ‘typical' chl a profiles regardless of their statistical form, provided several of a similar shape have been found in the training set. These are arranged in a linear array, ranging from uniform profiles low in chl a to profiles with high surface or subsurface peaks. We then use generalised modelling to relate these characteristic profiles to remotely sensed surface features, viz. surface chl a and SST, as well as area, season, and water depth (a proxy for distance offshore). The model accounts for 87% of the variability in chl a profile and is used to predict the type of profile likely for each pixel in monthly remote sensing composites of SST and surface chl a and then to estimate integrated chl a and primary production with the aid of a light model. Primary production peaks in mid-summer, reaching 5 mgC m–2 d–1 locally, with an average over the whole area and all seasons of 1.4 mgC m–2 d–1. Seasonal variation is greatest in the southern part of the west coast, and lowest in the stratified southeast. Annual primary production for the southern Benguela region including the Agulhas Bank is ca. 156 million tC yr–1. This is the most robust estimate of primary production in the Benguela system to date because it combines the spatial and temporal coverage provided by remote sensing with realistic vertical chl a profiles.



809) Recherche du mot : TEMA (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_GHA_TEM)


810) Recherche du mot : Thon aux grands yeux (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_obesus)


811) Recherche du mot : marine ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/marine_ecosystem)
1/762: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofplanktonwithreferencetofishvariabilityinthebenguelacurrentlargemarineecosystemanoverview> : SCORE = 3.2755096
Doc : Variability of plankton with reference to fish variability in the benguela current Large Marine Ecosystem – An Overview.


2/763: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/indicatorsquantifyingsmallpelagicfishinteractionsapplicationusingatrophicmodelofthesouthernbenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Indicators quantifying small pelagic fish interactions: application using a trophic model of the southern Benguela ecosystem
Three indicators quantifying interactions between species are developed for an upwelling system to provide useful measures for the comparison of marine ecosystem structure and function. Small pelagic fish are dominant in upwelling systems, and by definition, they are pivotal in a wasp-waist upwelling system. The indicator of interaction strength (IS) quantifies the effect that a change in biomass of one group has on abundance of other groups. The functional impact (FI) indicator quantifies the trophic impacts of species on their own and other functional groups or feeding guilds. The trophic replacement (TR) indicator quantifies the trophic similarity between a species that is removed from an ecosystem and other species in that ecosystem, i.e. it quantifies the ability of one group to trophically replace another. A trophic model of the southern Benguela ecosystem is used as an example for the application of the indicators. The strong similarities in trophic functioning of the southern Benguela ecosystem in the anchovy-dominated system of the 1980s, and the 1990s when there was a shift towards greater sardine abundance, are explained by the mutual trophic replacement abilities of anchovy and sardine. Differences between the proposed indicators and mixed trophic impact assessment are highlighted, mainly resulting from the static versus dynamic nature of the models upon which they are based. Trophic indicators such as those presented here, together with other kinds of ecosystem indicators, may assist in defining operational frameworks for ecosystem-based fisheries management.
© 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

3/764: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitytheoryforecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Viability theory for ecosystem approach to fisheries
Maintenance of overall ecosystem complexity is perceived as critical to the sustainability of ecosystem use. The development of an operational basis for an ecosystem approach to fisheries, however, faces many difficulties. On the research side, the challenge is in defining proper long-term, ecosystem-related objectives; determining meaningful reference values and indicators for desirable or undesirable states of the ecosystem; and developing appropriate data collection, analytical tools and models. The "viability" concept developed in economics by Jean-Pierre Aubin can be used to assist in the definition, selection of, and interaction among long-term objectives at an ecosystem level. It recognizes that ecosystems are complex assemblages of interacting and self-organizing natural and human components that cannot be predicted. Viability models define an ensemble of "viable states", in contrast to undesirable states defined as such by ecological, economic, and/or social constraints. These constraints can be derived from fisheries objectives, conservation principles, scientific results of modelling, or precautionary principles, and correspond to limit reference points to be avoided. Viability theory does not attempt to choose any "optimal solution" according to given criteria, but selects "viable evolutions". These evolutions are compatible with the constraints in the sense that they satisfy them at each time and can be delineated by the viability kernel. The southern Benguela marine ecosystem is presented as a first attempt for the application of this theory. In defining ecosystem-based objectives (and related issues such as target reference points), it seems more difficult to reach consensus among stakeholders on what is desirable than on what is undesirable (e.g. biological or economic collapse, species extinction, displacement of local rural communities). Expressed in the negative form or as limit reference points, ecosystem-based constraints can be considered simultaneously with current target reference points, such as maximum sustainable yield, using viability models. The viability approach can help to progressively integrate ecosystem considerations, such as conservation, into fisheries management.

4/765: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/contributiontothecdentitledbenguelaforecastingalargemarineecosystem> : SCORE = 4.094387
Doc : Contribution to the CD entitled « Benguela : Forecasting a Large Marine Ecosystem »
published with the book

5/766: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/decadalenvironmentalandecologicalchangesinthecanarycurrentlargemarineecosystemandadjacentwaterspatternsofconnectionsandteleconnection> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Decadal environmental and ecological changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem and adjacent waters : Patterns of connections and teleconnection
In order to explore decadal changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem (LME), wind and SST data collected by merchant ships are extracted from the Comprehensive Ocean Atmosphere Data Set (COADS) database from 1950 to 1995 within sixteen boxes along the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from 10°N up to 43°N.  Potential biases are reviewed and discussed when considering long-term changes and large spatial resolution. The heterogeneity of the seasonal patterns in the Canary current is described.  Decadal environmental changes are explored using Sea Surface Temperature (SST) data.  In the early and mid-1970s, an intensive cooling had a large latitudinal extension that affected the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from Spain to Senegal.  This cooling period was followed by a warming period, which started in the 1980s. Fisheries, fish stock abundance as well as fish population distributions have drastically changed during the last five decades. The sardine populations off Morocco widely fluctuated in a disconnected manner and a substantial increase in biomass was observed in fishing zone C (located between 20°N and 27°N) during the mid-1970s and mid-1980s. Several outbursts of fish populations (Micromesistius poutassou, Macrorhamphosus scolopax and M. gracilis, Octopus vulgaris, Balistes carolinensis) were observed during the last three decades in the Canary Current. In the case of the latter species it was connected with the outburst populations which took place in the Gulf of Guinea LME.  Upwelling intensity and sea surface temperature are strongly linked and are thought to affect both spatial distribution and abundance of fish in the Canary Current LME.  Ecosystems appear to be connected at very large scales through climatic teleconnection between the Northern and Central Atlantic but also between the Pacific and the Atlantic as the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index and the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events seem to have a major impact on the dynamics of the upwelling in the Canary Current.

6/767: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicstructureoftheperuvianmarineecosystemininsightsontheeffectsofmanagementscenariosforthehakefisheryusingtheibmtrophicmodelosmose> : SCORE = 1.7729216
Doc : Trophic structure of the Peruvian marine ecosystem in 2000-2006 : insights on the effects of management scenarios for the hake fishery using the IBM trophic model Osmose
The individual-based trophic model Osmose is applied to the upwelling marine ecosystem off
the coast of Peru. The dynamics and life cycle of eight major species of the Peruvian marine
ecosystem are explicitly considered in the model. Reference simulations provide an overview of
the trophic structure of the Peruvian ecosystem during the period 2000–2006. Results of model
calibration and simulations are discussed in the light of current empirical knowledge on the
trophic functioning of the Peruvian ecosystem and are compared to outputs obtained recently
using the trophic model Ecopath.
The impacts on the ecosystem of restoration plans for the depleted hake (Merluccius gayi
peruanus) population are explored through two management scenarios: a) a long term
reduction of fishing effort targeting hake and b) a moratorium on the hake fishery. The
simulations help better understand the recent failure of a 20 month hake moratorium and
provide long-term strategic support to ecosystem-based management. Limits of our approach
are discussed and recommendations are detailed for future developments of the Osmose model
and ecosystem approach to fishery management in the Peruvian context.

7/768: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howcansciencecontributetoanecosystemapproachtopelagicdemersalandrocklobsterfisheriesinsouthafrica> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : How can science contribute to an ecosystem approach to pelagic, demersal and rock lobster fisheries in South Africa?
South Africa is committed to moving towards an Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries (EAF) and has laid the foundations for this using a three-pronged approach: through a project (EAF Feasibility Study) under the Benguela Current Large Marine Ecosystem Programme; through a dedicated scientific working group established by the Marine and Coastal Management branch of South Africa's Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism; and through collaborative scientific and modelling studies within the joint French-South African ‘Upwelling Ecosystems' Programme. This contribution provides an overview of the progress made towards developing an EAF in South Africa, both on the scientific front in terms of improved understanding of the functioning of the Benguela ecosystem and the ways in which its ecosystem components interact, and regarding the practical ways being explored to enable scientific advice to feed in to South African fisheries management while taking into account broad stakeholder concerns. The paper focusses particularly on the role played by scientific contributions (research and monitoring) to address these ecosystem issues in three important South African fisheries — pelagic, demersal and rock lobster — so that the appropriate management measures can be put into place. Socio-economic concerns are included for the rock lobster fishery.

8/769: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/regimeshiftsinupwellingecosystemsobservedchangesandpossiblemechanismsinthenorthernandsouthernbenguela> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Regime shifts in upwelling ecosystems: observed changes and possible mechanisms in the northern and southern Benguela
A regime shift is considered to be a sudden shift in structure and functioning of a marine ecosystem, affecting several living components and resulting in an alternate state. According to this definition, regime shifts differ from species replacement or alternation of species at similar trophic levels, whereby the ecosystem is not necessarily significantly altered in terms of its structure and function; only its species composition changes. This paper provides an overview of regime shifts, species replacements and alternations that have been observed in the northern and southern Benguela ecosystems over the past few decades. Bottom-up control, initiating and sustaining regime shifts or species replacements via environmental forcing, is documented for both the southern and the northern Benguela ecosystems. Fishing (a case of top-down control) appears to have played an important role in regime shift processes in the Namibian ecosystem. Very low biomass levels of exploited fish stocks associated with less efficient energy transfer in the northern Benguela are indicative of a regime shift. Very high biomass levels have been reached in the southern Benguela in the 2000s. However the alternation between sardine and anchovy that has been observed in the southern Benguela over the last two decades appears not to have had major effects on the overall functioning of the ecosystem. The consequences of regime shifts for exploitation are highlighted, suggesting that fisheries managers should move towards a more effective ecosystem approach to fisheries.
© 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

9/770: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitymodeloftrophicinteractionsinmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Viability model of trophic interactions in marine ecosystems
An attempt to use viability models for studying marine ecosystems is proposed as a possible alternative to classical ecosystem modeling. Viability models do not consider optimal solutions but instead define all possible evolutions of a dynamical system under given constraints. Applied to marine ecosystems, a viability model is formulated based on the trophic coefficients of a mass-balanced model. This requires relatively few assumptions about the processes involved and can integrate uncertainty associated with the required estimates of input parameters. An iterative algorithm is proposed to calculate the viability kernel, i.e., the envelope of all viable trajectories of the ecosystem. An application to the Benguela ecosystem is presented, considering interactions between detritus, phytoplankton, zooplankton, pelagicfis h, demersal fish and fisheries. Results show how a viability kernel could be used to better define the healthy states of a marine ecosystem, by defining what states should be avoided. The paper discusses how viability models of trophic interactions could help to define a new ecosystem-based indicator for fisheries management. It then discusses how this approach can potentially contribute to a paradigm shift that is emerging in the management of renewable resources.

10/771: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/simulationsoffishingeffectsonthesouthernbenguelafishcommunityusinganindividualbasedmodellearningfromacomparisonwithecosim> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Simulations of fishing effects on the southern benguela fish community using an individual-based model: learning from a comparison with ECOSIM
By applying an individual-based model (OSMOSE) to the southern Benguela ecosystem, a multispecies analysis is proposed, complementary to that provided by the application of ECOPATH/ECOSIM models. To reconstruct marine foodwebs, OSMOSE is based on the hypothesis that predation is a size-structured process. In all, 12 fish species, chosen for their importance in terms of biomass and catches, are explicitly modelled. Growth, reproduction and mortality parameters are required to model their dynamics and trophic interactions. Maps of mean spatial distribution of the species are compiled from published literature. Taking into account the spatial component is necessary because spatial co-occurrence determines potential interactions between predatory fish and prey fish of suitable size. To explore ecosystem effects of fishing, different fishing scenarios, previously examined using ECOSIM, are simulated using the OSMOSE model. They explore the effects of targeting fish species in the southern Benguela considered to be predators (Cape hake Merluccius capensis and M. paradoxus) or prey (anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus, sardine Sardinops sagax, round herring Etrumeus whiteheadi). Simulation results are compared and are generally consistent with those obtained using an ECOSIM model. This cross-validation appears to be a promising means of evaluating the robustness of model outputs, when separate validation of marine ecosystem models are still difficult to perform.

11/772: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/towardsendtoendmodelsforinvestigatingtheeffectsofclimateandfishinginmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Towards end-to-end models for investigating the effects of climate and fishing in marine ecosystems
End-to-end models that represent ecosystem components from primary producers to top predators, linked through trophic interactions and affected by the abiotic environment, are expected to provide valuable tools for assessing the effects of climate change and fishing on ecosystem dynamics. Here, we review the main process-based approaches used for marine ecosystem modelling, focusing on the extent of the food web modelled, the forcing factors considered, the trophic processes represented, as well as the potential use and further development of the models. We consider models of a subset of the food web, models which represent the first attempts to couple low and high trophic levels, integrated models of the whole ecosystem, and size spectrum models. Comparisons within and among these groups of models highlight the preferential use of functional groups at low trophic levels and species at higher trophic levels and the different ways in which the models account for abiotic processes. The model comparisons also highlight the importance of choosing an appropriate spatial dimension for representing organism dynamics. Many of the reviewed models could be extended by adding components and by ensuring that the full life cycles of species components are represented, but end-to-end models should provide full coverage of ecosystem components, the integration of physical and biological processes at different scales and two-way interactions between ecosystem components. We suggest that this is best achieved by coupling models, but there are very few existing cases where the coupling supports true two-way interaction. The advantages of coupling models are that the extent of discretization and representation can be targeted to the part of the food web being considered, making their development time- and cost-effective. Processes such as predation can be coupled to allow the propagation of forcing factors effects up and down the food web. However, there needs to be a stronger focus on enabling two-way interaction, carefully selecting the key functional groups and species, reconciling different time and space scales and the methods of converting between energy, nutrients and mass.

12/773: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitytheoryforanecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Viability theory for an ecosystem approach to fisheries
Maintenance of overall ecosystem complexity is perceived as critical to the sustainability of ecosystem use. The development of an operational basis for an ecosystem approach to fisheries, however, faces many difficulties. On the research side, the challenge is in defining proper long-term, ecosystem-related objectives; determining meaningful reference values and indicators for desirable or undesirable states of the ecosystem; and developing appropriate data collection, analytical tools and models. The ‘‘viability'' concept developed in economics by Jean-Pierre Aubin can be used to assist in the definition, selection of, and interaction among long-term objectives at an ecosystem level. It recognizes that ecosystems are complex assemblages of interacting and self-organizing natural and human components that cannot be predicted. Viability models define an ensemble of ‘‘viable states'', in contrast to undesirable states defined as such by ecological, economic, and/or social constraints. These constraints can be derived from fisheries objectives, conservation principles, scientific results of modelling, or precautionary principles, and correspond to limit reference points to be avoided. Viability theory does not attempt to choose any ‘‘optimal solution'' according to given criteria, but selects ‘‘viable evolutions''. These evolutions are compatible with the constraints in the sense that they satisfy them at each time and can be delineated by the viability kernel. The southern Benguela marine ecosystem is presented as a first attempt for the application of this theory. In defining ecosystem-based objectives (and related issues such as target reference points), it seems more difficult to reach consensus among stakeholders on what is desirable than on what is undesirable (e.g. biological or economic collapse, species extinction, displacement of local rural communities). Expressed in the negative form or as limit reference points, ecosystembased constraints can be considered simultaneously with current target reference points, such as maximum sustainable yield, using viability models. The viability approach can help to progressively integrate ecosystem considerations, such as conservation, into fisheries management. © 2004 International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.



812) Recherche du mot : Makaire bleu Atlantique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_nigricans)


813) Recherche du mot : Juveniles large (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/juveniles_large)


814) Recherche du mot : Blacktail reef shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_wheeleri)


815) Recherche du mot : Diaphanous hatchet fish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sternoptyx_diaphana)


816) Recherche du mot : promontory (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/promontory)


817) Recherche du mot : interaction interspécifique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/interSpecificInteraction)


818) Recherche du mot : Seriola rivoliana (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seriola_rivoliana)


819) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus falciformis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_falciformis)
1/774: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.



820) Recherche du mot : West African Spanish mackerel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_tritor)


821) Recherche du mot : Modélisation (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/modeling)
1/775: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelisationbioeconomiquedelapecheriesdepoulpesenmauritaniealaidedumodeleanalytiquekrakenannexeaurapportdelacommisionsocioeconomie> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Modélisation bio-économique de la pêcheries de poulpes en Mauritanie à l'aide du modèle analytique « kraken », annexe au Rapport de la commision Socio-Economie


2/776: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/emeforumhalieumetrique> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : 7ème Forum Halieumétrique,
Du plancton dans la mer jusqu'au poisson dans l'assiette du consommateur, une grande diversité de processus
s'enchaînent ou s'entrecroisent dans un secteur halieutique. D'une extrémité à l'autre de ce réseau les échelles
de taille des entités, leur étendue spatiale ou leur caractéristique de temps changent.
Sur ce dernier aspect, la dynamique d'un système halieutique est par exemple la combinaison de phénomènes
naturels plutôt à grande période (e.g., changements globaux) et de dynamiques humaines plutôt à grande
fréquence (e.g., plonger une ligne dans l'eau). De plus, les échelles de temps caractéristiques ne constituent pas
un ensemble fini mais plutôt un continuum, des phénomènes les plus lents aux plus instantanés.
Pouvoir appréhender la dynamique d'ensemble d'un tel système suppose donc de pouvoir rendre compte au
mieux de ces phénomènes intervenant dans le temps court ou le temps long.
La communication s'attachera à présenter cette problématique autour de trois aspects illustratifs :
1. La situation et les contraintes posées aux systèmes de régulation du fait de cette multiplicité d'échelles
temporelles et les dispositifs de recherche qui doivent être associés à ce type de contrainte.
2. Les contraintes d'observation liées au suivi, avec des ressources en général limitées, de cette diversité
d'échelles temporelles et les modalités pour y répondre dans le cadre de la conception d'observatoires.
3. Les contraintes de représentation liées à la prise en compte de phénomènes dont les échelles de
temps caractéristiques sont différentes et les artefacts de modélisation qui peuvent permettent d'y
répondre.
Des exemples tirés de travaux réalisés sur les pêches en Afrique de l'Ouest serviront de support pour une
discussion d'ordre général, et exploratoire, sur les relations et contraintes liées à la cohabitation entre temps
court et temps long.

3/777: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/emeforumhalieumetrique> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : 7ème Forum Halieumétrique,
Du plancton dans la mer jusqu'au poisson dans l'assiette du consommateur, une grande diversité de processus
s'enchaînent ou s'entrecroisent dans un secteur halieutique. D'une extrémité à l'autre de ce réseau les échelles
de taille des entités, leur étendue spatiale ou leur caractéristique de temps changent.
Sur ce dernier aspect, la dynamique d'un système halieutique est par exemple la combinaison de phénomènes
naturels plutôt à grande période (e.g., changements globaux) et de dynamiques humaines plutôt à grande
fréquence (e.g., plonger une ligne dans l'eau). De plus, les échelles de temps caractéristiques ne constituent pas
un ensemble fini mais plutôt un continuum, des phénomènes les plus lents aux plus instantanés.
Pouvoir appréhender la dynamique d'ensemble d'un tel système suppose donc de pouvoir rendre compte au
mieux de ces phénomènes intervenant dans le temps court ou le temps long.
La communication s'attachera à présenter cette problématique autour de trois aspects illustratifs :
1. La situation et les contraintes posées aux systèmes de régulation du fait de cette multiplicité d'échelles
temporelles et les dispositifs de recherche qui doivent être associés à ce type de contrainte.
2. Les contraintes d'observation liées au suivi, avec des ressources en général limitées, de cette diversité
d'échelles temporelles et les modalités pour y répondre dans le cadre de la conception d'observatoires.
3. Les contraintes de représentation liées à la prise en compte de phénomènes dont les échelles de
temps caractéristiques sont différentes et les artefacts de modélisation qui peuvent permettent d'y
répondre.
Des exemples tirés de travaux réalisés sur les pêches en Afrique de l'Ouest serviront de support pour une
discussion d'ordre général, et exploratoire, sur les relations et contraintes liées à la cohabitation entre temps
court et temps long.



822) Recherche du mot : Torre Giulia (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/torre_giulia)


823) Recherche du mot : Indo-Pacific king mackerel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_guttatus)


824) Recherche du mot : Bayesian statistics (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bayesian_statistics)


825) Recherche du mot : Requin tigre commun (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/galeocerdo_cuvier)


826) Recherche du mot : Bay of Bengual current ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bay_of_bengual_ecosystem)


827) Recherche du mot : CICTA (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/groupIattcAtlantic)


828) Recherche du mot : Indo-Pacific sergeant (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/abudefduf_vaigiensis)


829) Recherche du mot : Procellaria aequinoctialis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/procellaria_aequinoctialis)


830) Recherche du mot : Areolate grouper (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/epinephelus_areolatus)


831) Recherche du mot : short-billed spearfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_angustirostris)


832) Recherche du mot : target species (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/hasTarget)
1/778: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/whythenumberofhooksperbaskethpbisnotagoodproxyindicatorofthemaximumfishingdepthindriftinglonglinefisheries> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Why the number of hooks per basket (HPB) is not a good proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth in drifting longline fisheries?
The effects of targeting in longline fisheries have major impacts on CPUE (catch per unit effort). To target large pelagic fishes in longline fisheries, fishermen deployed several tactics according to the target species. For a given species, the tactic depends on both the season and the fishing ground. One of major aims of the fishing tactic is to set the longline for optimizing the overlap between the distribution of hook depths and the supposed preferential vertical habitat of the target species. Thus, the maximum fishing depth (MFD) of the longline is recognized as a key parameter for estimating the distribution of hook depths and then to standardize fishing effort. In this context, the number of hooks per basket (HPB) is commonly used as a proxy indicator of MFD (this information has been collected for the Japanese longline fishery since 1975). Unfortunately HPB is not a good proxy indicator of MFD. In the first part of this work we illustrate why our previous affirmation is consistent from a theoretical point of view. Second, we analyse depth series recorded with time depth recorders (TRDs) at the deepest point of the mainline (data collected during instrumented longline experiments carried out in the French Polynesia EEZ, central South Pacific). We observe variations of depths recorded during the soak time and we compare the calculated mean depth of depth series with the theoretical MFD (catenary formula). The mean depth appears as the better proxy indicator of the MFD which can be used to estimate the distribution of hook depths. Finally, we discuss relevant data which must be collected by both observers and fishermen in order to improve analysis of the fishing effort in longline fisheries. These data are crucial to standardize appropriately longline CPUE and to correct for potential bias. Statistical models (even the most sophisticated, such as habitat based model, GLM, GAM, GLMM or neural networks) could not supplant for the lack of such input information.

2/779: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabiladultothunnusalbacaresdelaflotadecercotropicaleuropeaeneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Actualizacion de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil adulto (thunnus albacares) de la flota de cerco tropical europea en el oceano atlantico de 1980 a 2006
This document presents a standardized index update of adult yellowfin (>30 kg) of tropical purse seine fleets in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006. The data used were taken from spear fishing logbooks and detailed information of the fleet. The standardization has been carried out by generalized linear models (GLM) using the delta model. The standardized indices are obtained from the GLM model estimations: one is calculated from the least squares means (LSMeans) and another from the annual averages of the adjusted values. The variability of the latter is lower. Therefore, in this case, it is a more adequate index to be used in assessment models. The year, country, category, age of vessel and catches of skipjack tuna, which is the other target species of these fleets, were considered as explanatory variables.

3/780: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/therelevanceofsizeparametersasindicatorsoffisheryexploitationintwowestafricanreservoirs> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : The relevance of size parameters as indicators of fishery exploitation in two West African reservoirs
Abstract  Fish communities living within the artificial reservoirs of Manantali and Selingue in Mali are compared after the monitoring
of small-scale fishery landings over 13 months (May 2002–June 2003). The fishing pressure constitutes the main difference
of these two similar reservoirs. The effects of fishing on the structure of the fish communities are analyzed by using fish
size spectra and derived indicators. In Selingue Reservoir, the fishing gears mostly target smaller species (mean length of
165 mm) than in Manantali Reservoir (mean length of 210 mm). Unlike in Selingue, the size structure does not change between
seasons in Manantali. In Selingue, fishing practices that target the fish recruitment of the year constitute a structuring
factor of the fish sizes observed in the catches. In spite of similar values of the slopes of the global fish communities'
size spectra between the two reservoirs, they clearly display an intense exploitation at Selingue. Then, size-based spectra
indicators represent a potential tool for assessing the impact of fishing on fish communities in small-scale fisheries.

4/781: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialconsiderationsforthedakhlastockofoctopusvulgarisindicatorspatternsandfisheriesinteractions> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Spatial considerations for the Dakhla stock of Octopus vulgaris: indicators, patterns and fisheries interactions
The common octopus (Octopus vulgaris) is the target species of the cephalopod fishery that exploits two stocks, Dakhla and Cap Blanc, off southern Morocco (26 degrees N 21 degrees N), an area commonly referred to as the Saharan Bank. Octopus vulgaris is also one of the most abundant demersal species in this highly productive area, and plays a key role in the upwelling ecosystem. Spatial patterns of the main phases of the octopus vulgaris life cycle of the Dakhla stock are described, using trawl surveys carried out twice a year from 1998 to 2003. Using geostatistics and spatial indicators, mature females and juveniles are analysed and mapped to characterize the main features of the spawning and recruitment phases. There are clear distinctions between the spatial patterns of the spawning and recruitment phases: juveniles are more coastal, less spatially dispersed, more anisotropically distributed, and more patchy. Our results suggest that the spatial pattern of the Octopus vulgaris Dakhla stock is different from that of the same species in other ecosystems such as the Mediterranean. GIS reveals that the spawning-stock biomass is globally more accessible to the industrial fleet than to the artisanal one, a finding contrary to contemporary thinking and with important resource management implications.

5/782: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/madepreliminaryinformationonanewecprojecttoproposemeasurestomitigateadverseimpactsofopenoceanfisheriestargetinglargepelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : MADE: preliminary information on a new EC project to propose measures to mitigate adverse impacts of open ocean fisheries targeting large pelagic fish
A particular attention has been paid worldwide on longline fisheries as they catch considerable amount of by-catch (seabirds, turtles, sharks, etc.). Seabird and turtles by-catch mitigation methods have now been established in many fisheries worldwide, but similar efforts must be put to reduce by-catch of sharks. In the same ecosystems, another issue attracts the attention of international tuna commissions: the use of drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs). These FADs are responsible for major catches of juvenile tuna and non target pelagic species (sharks). Finally, the effects of thousands of FADs released regularly in the tropical oceans are unknown, and must be studied to estimate if they impact the biology of pelagic species. The European open ocean tropical and Mediterranean pelagic fishery (Spain, France, Portugal, Italy, Greece) is one of the main sources of catch, income and employment for the European fishery, with interactions with many developing countries. The MADE project was set up to develop measures to mitigate adverse impacts of fisheries targeting large pelagic fish in the open ocean: purse seiners using FADs and longliners. This 4-year project, started in mid-2008 within the 7th EC Framework Programme, and is a cooperative research carried out under the coordination of IRD, including 13 scientific institutions belonging to 6 European Countries and 2 ICPC countries in three different areas (Mediterranean Sea, Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean). Two main categories of mitigation measures will be studied: spatial management issues (e.g. closure areas) and technical solutions to reduce by-catch in these fisheries. The main concept of MADE is to follow a multi-disciplinary and comparative approach, combining biological and technological studies with economical analyses in different sites (Indian and Atlantic oceans, Mediterranean Sea), with a particular effort to closely associate fishers.

6/783: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.

7/784: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/stablecarbonandnitrogenisotopeanalysisofthenephropsnorvegicusmerlucciusmerlucciusfishinggroundsinthebayofbiscaynortheastatlantic> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Stable carbon and nitrogen isotope analysis of the Nephrops norvegicus/Merluccius merluccius fishing grounds in the Bay of Biscay (Northeast Atlantic)
The trophic structure of the benthic ecosystem of the Grande Vasière (Great Mud Bank), a heavily trawled area in the Bay of Biscay, is largely unknown. To better understand the biotic interactions between exploited species (mainly Norway lobster, Nephrops norvegicus, and European hake, Merluccius merluccius) and their competitors and prey, we applied a dual stable carbon (13C/12C) and nitrogen (15N/14N) isotope analysis to determine trophic levels and differences in the potential food sources of species in the benthic and demersal communities. Five main groups of species constitute the basis of the trophic structure. They are distributed in three main trophic levels: primary consumers; secondary consumers including N. norvegicus and juvenile M. merluccius; and top predators including adult M. merluccius (δ15N = 14.5). The large differences in δ13C values within the primary consumers attest to two different food components: a pelagic component composed of fresh sedimenting particulate organic matter, which mainly supplies supra- and epi-benthic suspension feeders, and zooplankton, and a benthic component, which mainly supplies deposit feeders. For the predators, the target species, and their competitors, diet changes during the life-span are reflected by differences in isotope values for the size classes.

Résumé : La structure trophique de l'écosystème benthique de la Grande Vasière, une importante zone de pêche au chalut de fond du Golfe de Gascogne, demeure encore méconnue. Afin de mieux comprendre les interactions biotiques entre les espèces exploitées (principalement la langoustine, Nephrops norvegicus, et le merlu, Merluccius merluccius) et leurs concurrents et proies, une analyse des isotopes sables du carbone (13C/12C) et de l'azote (15N/14N) a été réalisée pour étudier les différents niveaux trophiques et mettre en évidence l'existence de différentes sources de nourriture potentielles des communautés benthiques et démersales. Cinq principaux groupes trophiques constituent la base de la structure de la chaîne alimentaire. Trois niveaux trophiques ont été identifiés : consommateurs primaires, consommateurs secondaires (N. norvegicus et les juvéniles de M. merluccius) et les supers prédateurs comme les adultes de M. merluccius (δ15N = 14,5 ). Les grandes différences de δ13C au sein des consommateurs primaires attestent de deux différentes sources de nourriture : l'une pélagique composée de matière organique particulaire fraîche sédimentant, qui alimente principalement les suspensivores supra- et épi-benthiques, et le zooplancton et l'autre benthique qui alimente les déposivores. Les changements de régimes alimentaires des prédateurs, l'espèce cible et leurs compétiteurs, au cours de leur vie, se traduisent par des différences isotopiques entre les différentes classes de taille.



833) Recherche du mot : Cheilopogon sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/cheilopogon_sp)


834) Recherche du mot : Outil d'exploitation des ressources naturelles (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/natural_resources_exploitation_tool)


835) Recherche du mot : GEOSAT (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/GEOSAT)


836) Recherche du mot : Carinaria sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carinaria_sp)


837) Recherche du mot : tortue imbriquée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/eretmochelys_imbricata)


838) Recherche du mot : trawler (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/trawler)


839) Recherche du mot : Approche écosystémique des pêches (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/aep)
1/785: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/conferenceiddriparis> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Conférence IDDRI Paris
En moins d'un siècle, les pêcheries marines mondiales qui constituent la dernière industrie exploitant à l'échelle globale des ressources renouvelables sauvages ont atteint leurs limites écologiques et économiques. C'est dans un contexte de surexploitation des écosystèmes et de changement climatique que nos sociétés envisagent aujourd'hui  la viabilité, et dans certains cas la survie, d'une activité d'exploitation du milieu naturel qui pourrait devenir, une activité marginale voire récréative. Une chance unique, mais aussi un challenge, s'offrent à nous dans la mesure où la complexité des écosystèmes (de leur fonctionnement mais aussi de leur exploitation et de leur conservation) est aujourd'hui perçue comme indispensable à leur viabilité. Cette approche écosystémique des pêches est aujourd'hui sollicitée au niveau international et les réponses en terme d'aménagement des pêcheries commencent à voir le jour. Intégrer les pêcheries dans les écosystèmes marins, réconcilier conservation et exploitation restent possible dans un contexte d'usages de plus en plus diversifiés des ressources marines mais nécessitera de nombreuses évolutions. Cette conférence permettra de présenter l'approche écosystémique  des pêches et la façon dont certains pays la mettent en oeuvre de façon pragmatique, en Afrique du Sud par exemple. Les changements globaux doivent être perçus comme une chance pour nos sociétés pour repenser notre relation à la Nature.



840) Recherche du mot : Atún rojo del Sur (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_maccoyii)


841) Recherche du mot : Tetrapturus pfluegeri (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_pfluegeri)


842) Recherche du mot : Océano Atlántico (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/atlanticOcean)
1/786: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabildelaflotadecercotropicaleneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Actualización de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil de la flota de cerco tropical en el océano Atlántico de 1980 a 2006.
En este documento se presenta una actualización del índice estandarizado de rabil adulto (>30 Kg.) de las flotas de cerco tropical en el océano Atlántico desde 1980 hasta 2006. Los datos utilizados provienen de los cuadernos de pesca por lance e información pormenorizada de la flota. La estandarización se ha realizado mediante modelos lineales generalizados (GLM) utilizando el método delta. De las estimaciones de los modelos glm se obtienen dos índices estandarizados: uno calculado a partir de las medias mínimo cuadráticas (LSMeans) y otro a partir de los promedios anuales de los valores ajustados. La variabilidad de este último es menor, por lo que, en este caso, es un índice más adecuado para su utilización en los modelos de evaluación. Como variables explicativas se han considerado el año, país, categoría, antigüedad del barco y la captura de listado, la otra especie objetivo de las flotas.



843) Recherche du mot : Spinner shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_brevipinna)


844) Recherche du mot : Cubiceps pauciradiatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/cubiceps_pauciradiatus)
1/787: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialdistributionofcubicepspauciradiatusperciformesnomeidaeinthetropicalindianoceananditsimportanceinthedietoflargepelagicfishes> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Spatial distribution of Cubiceps pauciradiatus (Perciformes:Nomeidae) in the tropical Indian Ocean and its importance in the diet of large pelagic fishes
The bigeye cigarfish (Cubiceps pauciradiatus) is a small pelagic nomeid of the tropical world ocean, often recovered in the stomach contents of top predators such as tunas, billfishes and marine mammals. In the Indian Ocean, a few studies have investigated the biology and the ecology of this species that is one of the most abundant fish of the intermediate trophic levels. In this paper, we investigated the spatial distribution of C. pauciradiatus in the Indian Ocean using pelagic trawl catches carried out between 20°N and 45°S, and the importance of bigeye cigarfish in the diet of 9 piscivorous fishes sampled by different fishing gears in the western part of the Indian Ocean. The highest densities were observed along the eastern coast of Africa and in the Arabian Sea (87 000 individuals per square nautical mile) during the South-West Monsoon and in the eastern part of the Seychelles archipelago (62 200 ind. square nmi) during the North-East Monsoon. Small sized bigeye cigarfish (20–80 mm SL) was a regular and abundant prey (20 to 200 ind. per stomach) for schooling predators exploited by purse seine fishery such as large yellowfin and bigeye tunas chasing prey near the sea surface. Large sized bigeye cigarfish (61–150 mm SL) occurred in small numbers (3 to 20 ind. per stomach) in the stomach contents of swordfish and of large yellowfin and bigeye tunas caught by longline sets at great depths. Large concentrations of bigeye cigarfish occurred in zones of high productivity, and that species constituted seasonally a strong link in the transfer of energy from low to high trophic levels in this part of the Indian Ocean.

2/788: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragefaunainthedietofthreelargepelagicfishlancetfishswordfishandyellowfintunainthewesternequatorialindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Forage fauna in the diet of three large pelagic fish (lancetfish, swordfish and yellowfin tuna) in the western equatorial Indian Ocean
Prey composition and resource partitioning were investigated among three large pelagic fish predators, yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox), in a poorly known oceanic area, the western Indian Ocean. The contents of 380 non-empty stomachs were analysed from specimens caught with longlines during scientific cruises carried out from 2001 to 2003. Diet data were processed by occurrence, mean proportion by number, wet weight, and mean proportion by reconstituted weight. Crustaceans, dominated by the swimming crab Charybdis smithii and the stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris, were the major food source of lancetfish. Cannibalism was also significant for that species. Yellowfin tunas preyed upon a large diversity of mesopelagic fishes, crustaceans (C. smithii and crab larvae) and cephalopods (the ommastrephid Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis). Mesopelagic fishes (Cubiceps pauciradiatus and Diretmoides parini) and cephalopods (mainly S. oualaniensis) were the main prey of swordfish. Diet overlap between swordfish and yellowfin tuna was evidenced by high Morisita-Horn index. But the feeding habits of these three predators differed by foraging depth and prey size, with swordfish feeding at deeper depths and on larger prey than the more epipelagic lancetfish and yellowfin tuna. Using these three predators as biological samplers, the present study provides novel data on micronekton fauna that is poorly documented in the western Indian Ocean: 67 families and 84 species of prey were recovered in the stomach contents, and our results indicate the presence of large resources of pelagic crustaceans that play a primary role in the epipelagic food chain.



845) Recherche du mot : Big-scale pomfret (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/taractichthys_longipinnis)


846) Recherche du mot : unicorn leatherjacket (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/aluterus_monoceros)


847) Recherche du mot : aquatic element (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/aquatic_element)


848) Recherche du mot : Ocean skipjack (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/katsuwonus_pelamis)
1/789: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anadvectiondiffusionreactionsizestructuredfishpopulationdynamicsmodelcombinedwithastatisticalparameterestimationprocedureapplicationtotheindianoceanskipjacktunafishery> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : An advection-diffusion-reaction size-structured fish population dynamics model combined with a statistical parameter estimation procedure: Application to the Indian Ocean skipjack tuna fishery
We develop an advection-di®usion size-structured ¯sh population
dynamics model and apply it to simulate the skipjack tuna population in the
Indian Ocean. The model is fully spatialized, and movements are parame-
terized with oceanographical and biological data; thus it naturally reacts to
environment changes. We ¯rst formulate an initial-boundary value problem
and prove existence of a unique positive solution. We then discuss the numer-
ical scheme chosen for the integration of the simulation model. In a second
step we address the parameter estimation problem for such a model. With
the help of automatic di®erentiation, we derive the adjoint code which is used
to compute the exact gradient of a Bayesian cost function measuring the dis-
tance between the outputs of the model and catch and length frequency data.
A sensitivity analysis shows that not all parameters can be estimated from the
data. Finally twin experiments in which pertubated parameters are recovered
from simulated data are successfully conducted.



849) Recherche du mot : Quota (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/quota)


850) Recherche du mot : Escolier reptile (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/nealotus_tripes)


851) Recherche du mot : Coryphaena hippurus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/coryphaena_hippurus)
1/790: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.

2/791: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/behaviorofdolphinfishcoryphaenahippurusarounddriftingfadsasobservedfromautomatedacousticreceivers> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Behavior of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) around drifting FADs as observed from automated acoustic receivers
To study the behavior of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) around drifting Fish Aggregating Devices (FADs), we tagged individuals with long-lived, coded sonic transmitters and attached automated sonic receivers to drifting FADs in two regions of theWestern Indian Ocean. Among the three tagging methods used in this study (surgery, external hooks, underwater bait without capture), the latest resulted in residence times significantly shorter than the other ones, likely due to regurgitation. Dolphinfish tagged with the two other methods usually stayed several days associated to FADs (Kaplan-Meier survival analysis 5.09 days, mean 6.25 days, SD 4.39 days, maximum 15.26 days), drifting with them. There was no significant difference in the residence times of dolphinfish in equatorial and tropical areas. While associated to FADs, dolphinfish spent most of their time close to floating object (<365 m). The total time spent away from FADs was low (median 8%), and likely corresponded to making feeding excursions. Dolphinfish did not form a single school while associated to a given FADs, but formed multiple small schools. FADs are likely to be sites with exchanges of individuals between schools. These results are discussed in regards to the possibility of FADs acting as ecological traps and the validity of meeting-point hypotheses as an explanation for fish aggregations under floating objects.

3/792: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mercurycontentincommercialpelagicfishanditsriskassessmentinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Mercury content in commercial pelagic fish and its risk assessment in the Western Indian Ocean
As top predators of pelagic food webs, large fish naturally bioaccumulate mercury (Hg). Determining Hg burdens in commercialized fish is essential considering the concern about effects of contaminants on human health and the legal thresholds that are therefore set for local consumption and/or exportation. Total Hg levels were measured in the muscular tissue of 183 fish of five commercially important species from the tropical zone of the Western Indian Ocean. All individuals were measured and sexed in order to study the impregnation of Hg with size and sex within each species. Values of Hg found in this part of the Indian Ocean were comparable to Hg in muscular tissue of the same species studied in other areas. The highest Hg levels were noted in Swordfish (Xiphias gladius) caught in waters surrounding Reunion Island (3.97 ± 2.67 μg.g−1 dry weight). Following the Swordfish, in decreasing order of Hg content, were the Yellowfin Tuna (Thunnus albacares) and the Skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), then the Common Dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) and the Wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri ). In the North of the Mozambique Channel, Swordfish had higher Hg levels than Yellowfin Tunas, and Dolphinfish exhibited intermediate Hg levels. The size of a fish was a determinating factor of its Hg burden, as was the species. Differences in size-normalized Hg levels were observed between the two study zones for Swordfish and Common Dolphinfish. Sex, in contrast, did not influence Hg levels suggesting that females and males have similar feeding habits. The muscular Hg levels presented here suggest that consumers of fish originating from theWestern Indian Ocean should limit themselves to one Swordfish based meal per week, or one fish meal a day if they choose to eat tuna or Common Dolphinfish.

4/793: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/homingabilitiesofdolphinfishcoryphaenahippurusdisplacedfromfishaggregatingdevicesfadsdeterminedusingacoustictelemetry> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Homing abilities of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) displaced from fish aggregating devices (FADs) determined using acoustic telemetry
We conducted displacement experiments using acoustic tags to study the orientation abilities of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) around FADs. Eleven fish were passively monitored using coded transmitters and acoustic receivers attached to FADs, while seven others were actively tracked with a vessel using continuous acoustic tags equipped with pressure sensors. All these 18 dolphinfish were captured close to a FAD and released between 70 and 1720 m from it. Five fish out of the 14 that were displaced at more than 360 m from a FAD (estimated detection range of our acoustic receivers, defining the target area during our experiment) returned to the target area. With one individual successfully returning to the target area after having been released at 1600 m from the FAD, the rate of return of fish released up to this distance was significantly higher than expected if they were moving at random, but many fish released at intermediate distances moved in other directions. Based on detailed statistical analysis of the return score, we estimated that dolphinfish are able to orientate towards a FAD area from at least 820 m. The connection between our definition of the target area and the association area of dolphinfish around a FAD is discussed, as well as the impact of stress and motivation in the rates of return observed. More experiments should be conducted to improve this first estimate. Specific experiments should also be designed to more accurately determine the association range of fish around FADs and their motivation to orientate towards FADs.

5/794: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

6/795: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingfishcommunitiesassociatedwithdriftingfishaggregatingdevicesfadsinthewesternindianoceanusingunderwatervisualsurveys> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Characterizing fish communities associated with drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean using underwater visual surveys
We adapted a visual census method, mainly used in demersal and reef fish studies, to characterize fish communities associated to drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean. Drifting FAD associated fishes from both equatorial (Seychelles) and tropical waters (Reunion Island) were examined by divers. A total of 32 species (belonging to 16 families) were observed associated with drifting FADs in equatorial waters, and 24 species (14 families) were found around FADs in tropical waters. Twenty species were found in both regions. The highest number of species observed at a single FAD was 18 (12 ± 2, mean ± SD) in equatorial and 13 (10 ± 3) in tropical waters, not counting circumnatant species loosely associated with the FAD. Some species like Kyphosus vaigiensis, Canthidermis maculata, Elagatis bipinnulata, Acanthocybium solandri and Coryphaena hippurus were observed on all or most of the surveys. In this study, the contribution in biomass of the 18 common species associated with drifting FADs (but excluding circumnatant species), represents more than 98% of the biomass. The overall biomass values of closely associated species remains well below tuna biomass estimates for circumnatant tuna schools at FADs, estimated as high as 200 tons. The species that most significantly contribute to the by-catch in tuna purse-seines logically match those that showing the highest biomass values in our surveys (Carcharhinus spp., Elagatis bipinnulata, Coryphaena hippurus, Canthidermis maculata, and Acanthocybium solandri). One of the most abundant and ubiquitous species in our study was the spotted oceanic triggerfish Canthidermis maculata that sometimes formed massive schools of many thousands individuals around the drifting FADs. Future research is needed to explore the role of such non tuna species in the attraction and aggregation processes of tuna around drifting FADs.



852) Recherche du mot : Protected marine area (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/amp)


853) Recherche du mot : Tetrapturus angustirostris (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_angustirostris)


854) Recherche du mot : Escolier royal (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/rexea_prometheoides)


855) Recherche du mot : capture (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/catches)
1/796: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usinglocalecologicalknowledgelektoprovideinsightonthetunapurseseinefleetsoftheindianoceanusefulformanagement> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Using local ecological knowledge (LEK) to provide insight on the tuna purse seine fleets of the Indian Ocean useful for management
The purse seine fishery in the Western Indian Ocean is dominated by Spanish and French vessels that rely heavily on the use of drifting fish aggregation devices (DFADs) to capture tropical tuna species (skipjack, yellowfin and bigeye tuna). This study uses local ecological knowledge (LEK) obtained through standardized interviews of fishing masters to compare and characterize the body of local ecological knowledge, fishing technology and fishing strategies of both fleets, with the goal of obtaining useful information for the management of the fishery. A notable difference between fleets was the number of DFADs actively monitored per vessel at any given time, which was much higher for Spanish vessels (ca. 60 versus 20 DFADs). Spanish vessels also achieved higher vessel CPUE (catch per DFAD set) than their French counterparts. The use of supply vessels to manage, monitor and protect productive DFADs, and the latest satellite-based technology to track and remotely monitor DFAD aggregations is restricted to the Spanish fleet. The French do not use supply vessels and deploy less sophisticated tracking buoys. These technological disparities resulted in some fishing strategy differences between both fleets, but few differences were found in the knowledge of tuna behavior accumulated by the fishers.

2/797: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/behaviorofdolphinfishcoryphaenahippurusarounddriftingfadsasobservedfromautomatedacousticreceivers> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Behavior of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) around drifting FADs as observed from automated acoustic receivers
To study the behavior of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) around drifting Fish Aggregating Devices (FADs), we tagged individuals with long-lived, coded sonic transmitters and attached automated sonic receivers to drifting FADs in two regions of theWestern Indian Ocean. Among the three tagging methods used in this study (surgery, external hooks, underwater bait without capture), the latest resulted in residence times significantly shorter than the other ones, likely due to regurgitation. Dolphinfish tagged with the two other methods usually stayed several days associated to FADs (Kaplan-Meier survival analysis 5.09 days, mean 6.25 days, SD 4.39 days, maximum 15.26 days), drifting with them. There was no significant difference in the residence times of dolphinfish in equatorial and tropical areas. While associated to FADs, dolphinfish spent most of their time close to floating object (<365 m). The total time spent away from FADs was low (median 8%), and likely corresponded to making feeding excursions. Dolphinfish did not form a single school while associated to a given FADs, but formed multiple small schools. FADs are likely to be sites with exchanges of individuals between schools. These results are discussed in regards to the possibility of FADs acting as ecological traps and the validity of meeting-point hypotheses as an explanation for fish aggregations under floating objects.

3/798: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/indicesforcapturingspatialpatternsandtheirevolutionintimewithapplicationtoeuropeanhakemerlucciusmerlucciusinthebayofbiscay> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Indices for capturing spatial patterns and their evolution in time, with application to European hake (Merluccius merluccius) in the Bay of Biscay
A series of candidate statistical indices is used in an attempt to capture spatial patterns of fish populations from research survey data. To handle diffuse population limits, indices are designed not to depend on arbitrary delineation of the domain. They characterize the location (centre of gravity and spatial patches), the occupation of space (inertia, isotropy, positive area, spreading area, and equivalent area), statistical dispersion (Gini index and coefficient of variation of strictly positive densities), and microstructure. Collocation between different ages and years is summarized by a global index of collocation. Indices are estimated for hake from a bottom-trawl data series in the Bay of Biscay in autumn of 1987-2004. The study provides a detailed description of the spatial patterns of different hake age groups, age 3 appearing to be a turning point in these dynamics. Capturing spatial patterns through indices allows the comparison of surveyed populations and identification of trends and outliers in the time-series. Spatial indices are used in a multivariate approach to obtain an overview of the relationships between the different spatial indices characterizing the spatial behaviour of six age groups of hake, and to assess their persistence through time.

4/799: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/twowaycouplingversusonewayforcingofplanktonandfishmodelstopredictecosystemchangesinthebenguela> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Two-way coupling versus one-way forcing of plankton and fish models to predict ecosystem changes in the Benguela
‘End-to-end' models have been adopted in an attempt to capture more of the processes that influence the ecology of marine ecosystems and to make system wide predictions of the effects of fishing and climate change. Here, we develop an end-to-end model by coupling existing models that describe the dynamics of low (ROMS–N2P2Z2D2) and high trophic levels (OSMOSE). ROMS–N2P2Z2D2 is a biogeochemical model representing phytoplankton and zooplankton seasonal dynamics forced by hydrodynamics in the Benguela upwelling ecosystem. OSMOSE is an individual-based model representing the dynamics of several species of fish, linked through opportunistic and size-based trophic interactions. The models are coupled through a two-way size-based predation process. Plankton provides prey for fish, and the effects of predation by fish on the plankton are described by a plankton mortality term that is variable in space and time. Using the end-to-end model, we compare the effects of two-way coupling versus one-way forcing of the fish model with the plankton biomass field. The fish-induced mortality on plankton is temporally variable, in part explained by seasonal changes in fish biomass. Inclusion of two-way feedback affects the seasonal dynamics of plankton groups and usually reduces the amplitude of variation in abundance (top-down effect). Forcing and coupling lead to different predicted food web structures owing to changes in the dominant food chain which is supported by plankton (bottom-up effect). Our comparisons of one-way forcing and two-way coupling show how feedbacks may affect abundance, food web structure and food web function and emphasise the need to critically examine the consequences of different model architectures when seeking to predict the effects of fishing and climate change.

5/800: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/combiningfishingclosurewithminimumsizeofcapturetoimproveoctopusproductioninsenegalesewatersanevaluationusinganalyticalmodelling> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Combining fishing closure with minimum size of capture to improve Octopus production in Senegalese waters: an evaluation using analytical modelling,
The dynamics of the Octopus vulgaris (Cuvier, 1797) population in Senegalese waters is
modelled to evaluate the potential impact of combining temporal fishing closure and minimum size of
capture on the production of this stock. The study is based on an analytical approach (cohort analysis
and simulation of captures on a monthly basis) adapted to the biological characteristics of O. vulgaris,
a short lifespan species. Several combinations of the two policies (minimum size and fishing closure)
are tested to complement the results of previous studies that evaluated each of the two strategies
separately, and in addition, to account for the fact that a positive synergistic effect can be expected.
The model covers the exploitation period from 1996 to 1999. As in previous simulations (of separate
effects), the present results focus on the instability of the responses (positive or negative, significant
or not, depending on the situation that prevailed each year) of the octopus stock to such policies. As
a consequence it is difficult to identify the ideal combination of closure and size limits that would
ensure a substantial improvement in production every year. Nevertheless, a 350g or 500g minimum size
policy seems to be profitable when combined with a two-month fishing closure in July–August. The
final discussion focuses on the fact that, in addition to its regional range, the present study presents
also a broader interest because the methodology proposed here aims to be applicable to other
cephalopods and short lived species fisheries.



856) Recherche du mot : Germo obesus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_obesus)


857) Recherche du mot : Spheniscus Humboldti (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/spheniscus_humboldti)


858) Recherche du mot : Lampris spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lampris_spp)


859) Recherche du mot : Palomette (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/orcynopsis_unicolor)


860) Recherche du mot : Pez espada (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/xiphias_gladius)


861) Recherche du mot : Seriola lalandi (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seriola_lalandi)


862) Recherche du mot : Cornuda cruz(=Pez martillo) (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyrna_zygaena)


863) Recherche du mot : Yellow-edged lyretail (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/variola_louti)


864) Recherche du mot : Cap Ste Marie (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/cap_ste_marie)


865) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus limbatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_limbatus)


866) Recherche du mot : Océan Indien (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/indianOcean)
1/801: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lespoissonsmesopelagiquesdansleschainesalimentairesuneapprocheparlesisotopesstablesducarboneetdelazotedanslecanaldemozambique> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Les poissons mesopélagiques dans les chaînes alimentaires : une approche par les isotopes stables du Carbone et de l'azote dans le Canal de Mozambique
Ce travail a pour objectif l'étude de la structure trophique des organismes mésopélagiques
dans le canal de Mozambique (océan Indien). Les organismes mésopélagiques sont des
proies préférentielles des grands poissons pélagiques comme les thons et les espèces
associées aux thons (le lancier, l'albacore, le patudo et l'espadon ; Potier et al. 2007). Les
organismes mésopélagiques se nourrissent directement sur le phytoplancton et le
zooplancton. Ils occupent les niveaux intermédiaires dans les chaînes alimentaires et
forment une « passerelle » entre les niveaux inférieurs et supérieurs. On dispose déjà de
connaissances sur les prédateurs de ces organismes, mais les organismes mésopélagiques
n'ont pas encore fait l'objet de beaucoup d'études.
Dans ce travail, nous avons utilisé les isotopes stables du Carbone et de l'Azote pour étudier
la position trophique relative de différentes espèces de poissons mésopélagiques. Les
différentes étapes pour obtenir la signature isotopique sont détaillées. Les premiers résultats
montrent une grande variabilité dans les signatures de l'Azote. Cette variabilité est mise en
relation avec l'habitat sur la verticale des différentes espèces et la position géographique
dans le Canal de Mozambique. Les valeurs sont comparées à celles obtenues sur leurs
prédateurs (thons, espadons et lanciers) et interprétées en fonction des régimes alimentaires
connus des différents prédateurs.



867) Recherche du mot : Tetrapturus albidus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_albidus)


868) Recherche du mot : Pays (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/country)
1/802: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lescrevettescotieresdemadagascarbiologieexploitationgestion> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Les crevettes côtières de Madagascar: Biologie, exploitation, gestion
Depuis les années 1960, les crevettes côtières de Madagascar font l'objet d'une intense exploitation. Elles représentent l'une des principales ressources de devises du pays et constituent à ce titre un enjeu convoité par les investisseurs, mais aussi par les pêcheurs traditionnels. Du fait de l'augmentation de la pression de pêche, la pêcherie malgache se trouve confrontée, depuis le milieu des années 1990, à des difficultés économiques croissantes, à la stagnation des débarquements, à la baisse des rendements et de la taille moyenne des captures.

Avec pour objectif d'actualiser les connaissances scientifiques sur la ressource et d'en améliorer la gestion et l'exploitation, mais également pour définir une politique d'aménagement des aires de production, le Programme national de recherche crevettière (PNRC) a été lancé en 1997 avec le soutien financier de l'Agence française de développement et l'expertise scientifique de l'Institut de recherche pour le développement (IRD).

2/803: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/conferenceiddriparis> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Conférence IDDRI Paris
En moins d'un siècle, les pêcheries marines mondiales qui constituent la dernière industrie exploitant à l'échelle globale des ressources renouvelables sauvages ont atteint leurs limites écologiques et économiques. C'est dans un contexte de surexploitation des écosystèmes et de changement climatique que nos sociétés envisagent aujourd'hui  la viabilité, et dans certains cas la survie, d'une activité d'exploitation du milieu naturel qui pourrait devenir, une activité marginale voire récréative. Une chance unique, mais aussi un challenge, s'offrent à nous dans la mesure où la complexité des écosystèmes (de leur fonctionnement mais aussi de leur exploitation et de leur conservation) est aujourd'hui perçue comme indispensable à leur viabilité. Cette approche écosystémique des pêches est aujourd'hui sollicitée au niveau international et les réponses en terme d'aménagement des pêcheries commencent à voir le jour. Intégrer les pêcheries dans les écosystèmes marins, réconcilier conservation et exploitation restent possible dans un contexte d'usages de plus en plus diversifiés des ressources marines mais nécessitera de nombreuses évolutions. Cette conférence permettra de présenter l'approche écosystémique  des pêches et la façon dont certains pays la mettent en oeuvre de façon pragmatique, en Afrique du Sud par exemple. Les changements globaux doivent être perçus comme une chance pour nos sociétés pour repenser notre relation à la Nature.

3/804: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/madagascarfaceauxenjeuxdudeveloppementdurable> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Madagascar face aux enjeux du développement durable
Cet ouvrage aborde la question du développement durable à Madagascar, un pays qui associe à une exceptionnelle biodiversité la grande pauvreté de la majorité de ses habitants.
Il est l'aboutissement de travaux de recherche visant à étudier les politiques environnementales et l'action collective locale, insérées dans des pratiques d'aide au développement. Quels sont les enjeux de développement durable à Madagascar par rapport au contexte international et quelles sont les conditions de mise en place et de réalisation des politiques environnementales ? De quels moyens dispose-t-on à Madagascar pour élaborer des politiques et des stratégies de développement durable ? Les expériences locales contribuent-elles au renouvellement des réflexions sur le développement durable ? Cet ouvrage vise un large public : les chercheurs du Nord comme des Suds, les acteurs de terrain, les enseignants et les étudiants intéressés par la thématique du développement durable dans les pays en développement.

4/805: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemesmarinsversunepecheresponsableetdurable> : SCORE = 0.2558992
Doc : Ecosystèmes marins : Vers une pêche responsable et durable
Il est urgent de mettre en place des mesures de gestion qui prennent en compte les impacts de la pêche sur le fonctionnement des écosystèmes. Les pratiques actuelles de la pêche, trop souvent issues d'une vision à court terme de rentabilité économique, hypothèquent non seulement l'avenir des populations et écosystèmes marins mais également celui du secteur de la pêche à moyen terme.
Dans un objectif d'incitation à une démarche de précaution et dans un véritable effort de construction de la pêche de demain, la FAO (Organisation des Nations Unies pour l'Alimentation et l'Agriculture) a jeté les bases d'une « Approche Ecosystémique des Pêches ». En établissant le code de conduite pour des pêches responsables en 1995, une dimension nouvelle apparaît avec le principe de précaution appliqué aux pêcheries. Il s'agit en l'occurrence d'une tentative affichée de réconcilier conservation et exploitation. Il ne s'agit pas de rejeter l'activité de pêche en tant que telle mais de responsabiliser les pêcheurs et instances décisionnelles dans l'exploitation des ressources renouvelables marines. Les activités de l'exploitation ne sont alors plus considérées comme isolées de leur contexte qu'est l'écosystème. La déclaration de Reykjavik en 2001, qui a ensuite été avalisée durant le Sommet Mondial sur le Développement Durable à Johannesburg en 2002, demande aux Etats de fonder leur politique d'exploitation des ressources marines sur des approches écosystémiques. Un cadre international et un agenda sont désormais fixés pour lequel des objectifs de la conservation et de l'exploitation existent.
Pour les scientifiques, un des enjeux est de mieux quantifier les effets de la pêche sur les écosystèmes. De nombreuses lacunes persistent encore dans ce domaine, car ce n'est que récemment que l'effort de recherche est porté sur le fonctionnement des écosystèmes dans leur ensemble. Une voie de recherche possible est d'élaborer et de proposer des indicateurs écosystémiques des pêches dans un objectif d'établir une véritable fiche de santé des écosystèmes marins et ainsi de mieux communiquer les connaissances scientifiques aux sphères décisionnelles de la gestion des pêches. L'utilisation de ces indicateurs a été discutée lors d'un symposium international en avril 2004 à l'Unesco, à Paris, qui a réuni plus de 250 chercheurs de 53 pays. Cette conférence a permis de faire un bilan des connaissances sur ce sujet et de jeter les bases des recherches futures à engager afin d'affiner les diagnostics de l'état de santé des écosystèmes marins mondiaux. Reste à savoir si les gouvernements intègreront la responsabilisation des pêcheries, prônée par la FAO, dans leur législation à l'heure où une gestion responsable et précautionneuse de la pêche est un minimum requis pour assurer la viabilité de la ressource et de son exploitation. Si, faute de ressources, les pêches maritimes ne veulent pas devenir une activité ludique à l'instar de la chasse, il faudra réduire le nombre de bateaux et leur activité, reconstituer les nombreux stocks de poissons qui se sont effondrés et réconcilier conservation et exploitation, c'est-à-dire rendre les pêcheries plus respectueuses de leur environnement.

5/806: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/sardaradumodeleconceptuelaumodelephysique> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Sardara, du modèle conceptuel au modèle physique
Introduction:
La base de données, nommée "Sardara 1" a pour objectif de réunir et gérer, de la manière la
plus efficace possible, les collections de données thonières internationales que les pays
soumettent au Organisations régionales des pêches (ORP) ad hoc : données de prises
(corrigées ou non pour la composition spécifique), d'efforts et de tailles des captures selon
les strates spatio-temporelles standards pour l'ensemble des flottilles qui les soumettent, et
pour toute la période où elles existent. Ces données constituent la base fondamentale de
toutes les évaluations de stocks de thons et/ou d'un suivi bioéconomique des pêcheries. Si
ces données sont publiques et en théorie disponibles auprès des ORP concernées (ICCAT,
CTOI, IATTC et WPFC), elles sont de facto parfois difficiles d'accès et le plus souvent
délicates à manipuler. La grande hétérogénéité des collections originelles constitue la
difficulté majeure dont le processus de conception cherchera à s'affranchir. La base de
données "Sardara" constitue l'avant dernier maillon du serveur ALIPA.



869) Recherche du mot : Le courant des Canaries (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/canaria_ecosystem)


870) Recherche du mot : macronectes giganteus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/macronectes_giganteus)


871) Recherche du mot : AEP exemple (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/aepExampleCaseStudy)


872) Recherche du mot : Summan grouper (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/epinephelus_summana)


873) Recherche du mot : saddle (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/saddle)


874) Recherche du mot : net_primary_productivity_of_carbon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/primaryProduction)


875) Recherche du mot : lagoon ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/lagoon_ecosystem)


876) Recherche du mot : Atlantic Ocean (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/atlanticOcean)
1/807: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/movementsoftropicaltunasfromthetunaassociatedbaitboatfisheryofdakarandfrombetypandhistoricaltaggingoperationsintheatlanticocean> : SCORE = 2.1275058
Doc : Movements of tropical tunas from the tuna-associated baitboat fishery of Dakar and from BETYP and historical tagging operations in the Atlantic Ocean
Tagging operations were conducted in the northern part of the Dakar baitboat fishing area
(13°N-21°N/15°W-25°W) from 1994 to 2000 (MAC program) and in the eastern Atlantic Ocean
by the BETYP program from 1999 to 2003. BETYP tagging took place in the Gulf of Guinea, in
Mauritania-Senegal (in collaboration with MAC), in the Canary, Madeira and Azores islands.
Movements of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye from Dakar baitboats are presented together with
tuna movements obtained from BETYP recoveries. These data are compared with movements
from historical tagging operations conducted from 1955 to 1998 in the entire Atlantic Ocean.
More emphasis is put on bigeye, as the main objective of BETYP is to obtain a better
understanding of bigeye stock structure and other parameters relevant to stock assessment.

2/808: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evoluciondelascapturasdejuvenilesderabilypatudodesdelaextenciondelapescasobreobjectosbalizados> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Evolucion de las capturas de juveniles de rabil y patudo desde la extencion de la pesca sobre objectos balizados
This document analyses the distribution of the catch of small yellowfin obtained for the entire
purse seine tuna fishing fleet in the Atlantic Ocean from 1991 to 2003. Catches have been
analysed by year, month, area and fishing mode (free school or floating object), in order to
define areas, seasons and fishing mode associated with largest catches of small yellowfin and
the possible relationship with the moratoria established to reduce juvenile bigeye catches.

3/809: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabiladultothunnusalbacaresdelaflotadecercotropicaleuropeaeneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Actualizacion de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil adulto (thunnus albacares) de la flota de cerco tropical europea en el oceano atlantico de 1980 a 2006
This document presents a standardized index update of adult yellowfin (>30 kg) of tropical purse seine fleets in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006. The data used were taken from spear fishing logbooks and detailed information of the fleet. The standardization has been carried out by generalized linear models (GLM) using the delta model. The standardized indices are obtained from the GLM model estimations: one is calculated from the least squares means (LSMeans) and another from the annual averages of the adjusted values. The variability of the latter is lower. Therefore, in this case, it is a more adequate index to be used in assessment models. The year, country, category, age of vessel and catches of skipjack tuna, which is the other target species of these fleets, were considered as explanatory variables.

4/810: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/newinformationfrompredatordietsontheimportanceoftwoommastrephidaesthenoteuthisoualaniensisintheindianoceanandhyaloteuthispelagicaintheatlanticocean> : SCORE = 3.2755096
Doc : New information from predator diets on the importance of two Ommastrephidae: Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis in the Indian Ocean and Hyaloteuthis pelagica in the Atlantic Ocean


5/811: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/growthofbigeyetunathunnusobesusintheeasternatlanticoceanfromtaggingrecapturedataandotolithsreadings> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Growth of bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) in the Eastern Atlantic ocean from tagging-recapture data and otoliths readings
Growth of bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) in the eastern Atlantic Ocean is studied from (1) 625
bigeye tagged and recaptured with a fork length (FL) range 37-124 cm, (2) otoliths collected on
108 bigeye in Dakar from which 83 were use to validate the growth ring deposit by oxytetracyclin
antibiotic injection, and (3) otoliths from 147 bigeye collected in Abidjan. For
otoliths, the sizes of Dakar bigeye range from 37 cm to 112 cm FL (almost all juveniles), those
from Abidjan from 29 cm to 190 cm (juveniles and adults). Growth curves obtained from the
two different sets of data are similar so all data are combined to give a single growth curve for
bigeye with K=0.180 yr-1
, L∞ = 217.3 cm and t0 = -0.709 year. The interest of this approach is
the confirmation of the daily rate for ring deposit on otoliths and the use of both tagging and
otoliths' reading to estimate growth parameters.

6/812: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimatedgrowthrateoftheskipjacktunakatsuwonuspelamisfromtaggingsurveysconductedinthesenegaleseareawithinametaanalysisframeworkcoll> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Estimated growth rate of the Skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis) from tagging surveys conducted in the Senegalese area (1996-1999) within a meta-analysis framework Coll
Tagging data obtained during the research program called MAC are reanalyzed for skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis), using the von Bertalanffy-Fabens' growth model. Tagging surveys were initiated during 1996-1999 on-board commercial baitboats in Mauritanian and Senegalese waters. The analyses include the Francis' maximum likelihood estimation approaches accounting for growth variability as a function of the expected growth increment. Bearing in mind the generally high negative correlation between estimates of L∞ and K, and instead of fixing L∞ at an arbitrary level, we expressed L∞ as a simple function of K within a meta-analysis framework. Based on previous estimates of growth parameters for skipjack in the world ocean, the fit of this bioenergetic growth equation gave the following relationship: L∞ = 70.607 K – 0.231. An alternative von Bertalanffy-Fabens' growth model was used in which to L∞ was substituted by this function of K. After the comparison of different error structure models, the estimates corresponding to the best fit under the AIC criteria were obtained for K = 0.251 and, after re-introducing this value in the bioenergetic equation, L∞ = 97.258. These results are not in agreement with growth parameter estimates obtained previously in the same part of the Atlantic Ocean but are consistent with the majority of growth estimates obtained by other investigators using tagging, hard part or length-frequency data. The application of the Francis variance model suggests that the variability of the growth increment of skipjack is not constant.

7/813: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

8/814: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/newinformationfromfishdietsontheimportanceofglassyflyingsquidhyaloteuthispelagicateuthoideaommastrephidaeintheepipelagiccephalopodcommunityofthetropicalatlanticocean> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : New information from fish diets on the importance of glassy flying squid (Hyaloteuthis pelagica) (Teuthoidea: Ommastrephidae) in the epipelagic cephalopod community of the tropical Atlantic Ocean
Squids of the family Ommastrephidae are a vital part of marine food webs and support major fisheries around the world. They are widely distributed in the open ocean, where they are among the most abundant in number and biomass of nektonic epipelagic organisms. In turn, seven of the 11 genera of this family (Dosidicus, Illex, Martialia, Nototodarus, Ommastrephes, Sthenoteuthis, and Todarodes) are heavily preyed upon by top marine predators, i.e., birds, mammals, and fish, and currently support fisheries in both neritic and oceanic waters (Roper and Sweeney, 1984; Rodhouse, 1997). Their commercial importance has made the large ommastrephids the target of many scientific ...

9/815: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofthegrowthparametersoftheskipjacktunakatsuwonuspelamisamongareasintheeasternatlanticanalysisfromtaggingdatawithinametaanalysisapproach> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Variability of the growth parameters of the skipjack tuna (/Katsuwonus pelamis/) among areas in the eastern Atlantic: Analysis from tagging data within a meta-analysis approach
In order to assess the latitudinal variability in growth of the eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), conventional tagging data collected by the International Commission of the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) since the 1960s are reanalyzed using a modified version of the von Bertalanffy-Fabens growth model. An analysis of the latitudinal patterns of recaptures showed that the lowest mixing rate between northern and southern regions was evidenced at 10◦ N Latitude. Since it is theoretically admitted that growth parameters L∞ and K are negatively correlated, we substituted L∞ into the growth equation model by a simple bioenergetic function of K fitted from existing studies on skipjack growth parameters. The likelihood for the meta-analysis of growth is combined with the likelihoods from the two regional tagging data with the aim of estimating simultaneously K in both areas and to transfer adequately uncertainties associated with the different data sets. From this study, it was showed that fish inhabiting waters south of 10◦ N latitude can be expected to grow generally larger but at slower rate than in the North (L∞ = 112.34 cm vs. 89.38 cm, and K = 0.14 vs. 0.38, respectively). Our results are consistent with the range of growth estimates obtained in the Atlantic Ocean and in different parts of the World's oceans. In contrast, the estimates of L∞ and K done in the Senegalese region in the 1980s within the framework of the Skipjack Year Program, and traditionally applied by ICCAT, are not supported by the present study. The findings concerning the phenotypic plasticity exhibited by growth of skipjack among latitudinal regions suggest potential differences in fish population productivity and consequently imply that non-conventional stock assessment methods such as catch-at size/growth transition matrix per region could be used to assess the responses of skipjack to exploitation.

10/816: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somecluesforcorrectingthetaggingdatabaseoftropicaltunas> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Some clues for correcting the tagging data base of tropical tunas
Conventional “spaghetti” tags have been used for a long time in Tropical Atlantic Ocean and have been collected by ICCAT secretary with the collaboration of scientists and fishermen. Despite, careful examination of the information provided at release and at recapture some errors may persist into the ICCAT tagging data base. The aim of this short note is to highlight some types of errors existing in the tagging data bases for tropical tunas and to suggest potential clues for corrections.

11/817: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/adynamicandmechanisticmodelofpcbbioaccumulationintheeuropeanhakemerlucciusmerluccius> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : A dynamic and mechanistic model of PCB bioaccumulation in the European hake (Merluccius merluccius)
Bioaccumulation is difficult to document because responses differ among chemical compounds, with environmental conditions, and physiological processes characteristic of each species. We use a mechanistic model, based on the Dynamic Energy Budget (DEB) theory, to take into account this complexity and study factors impacting accumulation of organic pollutants in fish through ontogeny. The bioaccumulation model proposed is a comprehensive approach that relates evolution of hake PCB contamination to physiological information about the fish, such as diet, metabolism, reserve and reproduction status. The species studied is the European hake (Merluccius merluccius, L. 1758). The model is applied to study the total concentration and the lipid normalised concentration of 4 PCB congeners in male and female hakes from the Gulf of Lions (NW Mediterranean sea) and the Bay of Biscay (NE Atlantic ocean). Outputs of the model compare consistently to measurements over the life span of fish. Simulation results clearly demonstrate the relative effects of food contamination, growth and reproduction on the PCB bioaccumulation in hake. The same species living in different habitats and exposed to different PCB prey concentrations exhibit marked difference in the body accumulation of PCBs. At the adult stage, female hakes have a lower PCB concentration compared to males for a given length. We successfully simulated these sex-specific PCB concentrations by considering two mechanisms: a higher energy allocation to growth for females and a transfer of PCBs from the female to its eggs when allocating lipids from reserve to eggs. Finally, by its mechanistic description of physiological processes, the model is relevant for other species and sets the stage for a mechanistic understanding of toxicity and ecological effects of organic contaminants in marine organisms.

12/818: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/standardizedcpueforjuvenileyellowfinskipjackandbigeyetunafromtheeuropeanpurseseinefleetintheatlanticoceanfromto> : SCORE = 1.7371012
Doc : Standardized CPUE for juvenile yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tunafrom the european purse seine fleet in the atlantic ocean from 1991 to 2006
In this document three abundance indices are obtained for the juveniles of tropical tunas (yellowfin (≤30Kg.), skipjack and bigeye of European purse seine fishery in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006 using generalized linear models (delta-lognormal model). Catch and effort data come from detailed daily logbooks. Catch rates are modelled using the delta lognormal model. The method estimates a combined CPUE of the three species from aggregated catches, and the proportion of catches for each species, so the final individual abundance indices are calculated multiplying both estimators for each species. Explanatory variables used in the analysis are: year, zone, quarter, harvest capacity, country, and starting date of the vessel. Year and zone are the most explanatory factors of variability in CPUEs and vessel characteristics have a minor explanatory effect in observed catch rates.

13/819: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/madepreliminaryinformationonanewecprojecttoproposemeasurestomitigateadverseimpactsofopenoceanfisheriestargetinglargepelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : MADE: preliminary information on a new EC project to propose measures to mitigate adverse impacts of open ocean fisheries targeting large pelagic fish
A particular attention has been paid worldwide on longline fisheries as they catch considerable amount of by-catch (seabirds, turtles, sharks, etc.). Seabird and turtles by-catch mitigation methods have now been established in many fisheries worldwide, but similar efforts must be put to reduce by-catch of sharks. In the same ecosystems, another issue attracts the attention of international tuna commissions: the use of drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs). These FADs are responsible for major catches of juvenile tuna and non target pelagic species (sharks). Finally, the effects of thousands of FADs released regularly in the tropical oceans are unknown, and must be studied to estimate if they impact the biology of pelagic species. The European open ocean tropical and Mediterranean pelagic fishery (Spain, France, Portugal, Italy, Greece) is one of the main sources of catch, income and employment for the European fishery, with interactions with many developing countries. The MADE project was set up to develop measures to mitigate adverse impacts of fisheries targeting large pelagic fish in the open ocean: purse seiners using FADs and longliners. This 4-year project, started in mid-2008 within the 7th EC Framework Programme, and is a cooperative research carried out under the coordination of IRD, including 13 scientific institutions belonging to 6 European Countries and 2 ICPC countries in three different areas (Mediterranean Sea, Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean). Two main categories of mitigation measures will be studied: spatial management issues (e.g. closure areas) and technical solutions to reduce by-catch in these fisheries. The main concept of MADE is to follow a multi-disciplinary and comparative approach, combining biological and technological studies with economical analyses in different sites (Indian and Atlantic oceans, Mediterranean Sea), with a particular effort to closely associate fishers.



877) Recherche du mot : used data source (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/used_data_source)


878) Recherche du mot : Odontodactylus scyllarus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/odontodactylus_scyllarus)


879) Recherche du mot : Catalan Sea (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/balearicSea)


880) Recherche du mot : Serra (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_brasiliensis)


881) Recherche du mot : Gestion des ressources naturelles (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/natural_resources_management)


882) Recherche du mot : Sthenototeutis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sthenototeutis)


883) Recherche du mot : Symbolophorus evermanni (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/symbolophorus_evermanni)


884) Recherche du mot : Graceful shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_amblyrhynchoides)


885) Recherche du mot : massif (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/rise)


886) Recherche du mot : Remora remora (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/remora_remora)


887) Recherche du mot : Roving coralgrouper (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/plectropomus_pessuliferus)


888) Recherche du mot : Oceanic puffer (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lagocephalus_lagocephalus)


889) Recherche du mot : Hammerhead sharks nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyrna_spp)


890) Recherche du mot : marlinsucker (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/remora_osteochir)


891) Recherche du mot : marque (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/tag)


892) Recherche du mot : mer (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/sea)
1/820: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/sexspecificdifferencesindivingbehaviouroftwosympatricalcinispeciesthickbilledmurresandrazorbills> : SCORE = 0.2558992
Doc : Sex-specific differences in diving behaviour of two sympatric Alcini species: thick-billed murres and razorbills
At the Gannet Islands, Labrador, sympatric thick-billed murres (Uria lomvia (L., 1758)) and razorbills (Alca torda L., 1758) are slightly sexually dimorphic and have similar intersexual differences in parental roles; females are the main meal providers and males are mostly involved in brooding and chick defence at the breeding site and at sea. The question is whether differences in parental roles influence the foraging behaviour patterns of males and females. Murre females foraged during twilight periods and dived shallower than males. In razorbills, although sex differences were not as clear, females also tended to dive shallower (<10 m) and more often at twilight. Males of both species foraged during daylight hours and tended to dive deeper than females. Females of both species had shorter dive bouts (i.e., duration of a series of dives) even though the number of bouts and dives per day were equal between sexes. In both species, female dives were mostly shallower W-shaped dives, likely for capturing crustaceans at twilight. In contrast, males performed mostly deeper U-shaped dives for capturing mid-water species (e.g., capelin, Mallotus villosus (Müller, 1776)). Altogether, our results show that the two sympatric auks had relatively similar intersexual segregation in feeding time, depth, and prey. Sex differences in nest attendance, driven by differences in parental roles, seem to explain these findings.

Résumé : Aux îles Gannet, Labrador, les guillemots de Brünnich (Uria lomvia (L., 1758)) et les petits pingouins (Alca torda L., 1758) qui vivent en sympatrie ont un faible dimorphisme sexuel et des différences sexuelles semblables dans leurs rôles parentaux; les femelles sont les principales approvisionneuses et les mâles sont surtout impliqués dans la couvaison et la défense des poussins au site de nidification et en mer. La question est de savoir si les différences de rôles parentaux affectent les patrons comportementaux de quête alimentaire des mâles et des femelles. Les guillemots femelles recherchent leur nourriture dans les périodes de demi-jour et plongent moins profondément que les mâles. Bien que les différences sexuelles ne soient pas aussi nettes chez les pingouins, les femelles ont aussi tendance à plonger moins profondément (<10 m) et plus souvent au demi-jour. Les mâles des deux espèces recherchent leur nourriture durant les heures de jour et tendent à plonger plus profondément que les femelles. Les femelles des deux espèces ont des épisodes de plongée (c'est-à-dire, les durées des séries de plongées) plus courts, quoique les nombres d'épisodes et de plongées soient les mêmes en une journée chez les deux sexes. Chez les eux espèces, les plongées des femelles suivent un trajet en W généralement moins profond, vraisemblablement pour capturer des crustacés au demi-jour. Au contraire, les mâles font surtout des plongées en U plus profondes pour capturer les espèces des profondeurs intermédiaires (par ex., le capelan, Mallotus villosus (Müller, 1776)). Dans leur ensemble, nos résultats montrent que les deux alcidés sympatriques possèdent la même ségrégation entre les sexes en ce qui a trait au moment et à la profondeur de leur alimentation, ainsi qu'en ce qui concerne les proies utilisées. Les différences de temps passé au nid, reliées aux différences des rôles parentaux, semblent expliquer ces résultats.

2/821: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/timebudgetanddivingbehaviourofchickrearingcrozetshags> : SCORE = 0.4432304
Doc : Time budget and diving behaviour of chick-rearing Crozet shags
Abstract: Blue-eyed shags are known to be capable of the deepest dives in the cormorant family. Yet, the way these birds balance their energy and time budgets remains enigmatic. Using ventrally attached time–depth recorders on chick-rearing Crozet shags (Phalacrocorax melanogenis Blyth, 1860), we simultaneously described their time budget and diving behaviour. Crozet shags are diurnal, benthic foragers (mean foraging range 1.7 km) that spend 37% of the daytime at sea. While at sea, they spend 49% of their time on the water, 44% diving, and 7% flying, and consume mainly benthic nototheniid fish. Larger fish (>20 g) were caught at shallower depths during shorter trips. They made, on average, 4.4 trips/day, each including 2.5 diving periods of 14 dives. On average, Crozet shags dove to 28 m (max. 145 m) for 2 min 2 s (max. 6 min 11 s). Descent and ascent rates became less variable at a depth of 40 m, possibly owing to a change in bird relative buoyancy at that depth. Ten percent of dives exceeded the estimated behavioural aerobic dive limit (4 min) and diving depths showed a bimodal distribution at <5 and ~18 m for dives lasting ~1 min. This dive duration corresponded to dives with higher dive duration/postdive interval ratios. The Crozet shags managed their dive cycle to fully exploit their breathing capacities, thus optimizing foraging performance.

Résumé : Dans la famille des phalacrocoracidés, les cormorans à ventre blanc sont connus pour plonger le plus profondément. Pourtant, la manière dont ces oiseaux gèrent leur budget temps et leur budget énergétique reste énigmatique. En attachant ventralement des enregistreurs de plongée sur des cormorans de Crozet (Phalacrocorax melanogenis Blyth, 1860) élevant des poussins, nous avons déterminé simultanément leur budget temps et leur comportement de plongée. Les cormorans de Crozet sont diurnes et se nourrissent sur le benthos (jusqu'à 1.7 km des côtes en moyenne). Ils passent 37 % de la période diurne en mer, dont 49 % du temps posés sur l'eau, 44 % en plongée et 7 % en vol. Ils consomment principalement des poissons notothéniidés benthiques. Les plus gros poissons (>20 g) sont pêchés à de plus faibles profondeurs, pendant des voyages en mer plus courts. Les cormorans font en moyenne 4,4 trajets en mer par jour, chacun composé de 2,5 séquences de 14 plongées. En moyenne, les cormorans de Crozet plongent à 28 m (max. 145 m), durant 2 min 2 s (max. 6 min 11 s). Les taux de descente et de remontée deviennent moins variables à partir de 40 m, ce qui pourrait être dû à un changement de flottabilité relative des oiseaux à cette profondeur. Dix pour cent des plongées dépassent la limite comportementale de plongée aérobie (4 min). Les oiseaux plongent principalement à moins de 5 m et aux environs de 18 m, pendant des plongées d'une minute environ. Cette durée correspond à des plongées pour lesquelles le rapport durée de plongée/intervalle de récupération est le plus grand. Les cormorans de Crozet gèrent leur cycle de plongée de façon à pleinement exploiter leurs capacités respiratoires, optimisant ainsi leur performance d'approvisionnement.

3/822: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/portfolioethologiepoissons> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Portfolio Ethologie: Poissons
N'importe quel objet flottant en pleine mer attire invariablement certaines espèces de poissons. Pour comprendre ce comportement, largement exploité par les pêcheurs, biologistes et ingénieurs inventent de nouvelles façons d'observer la faune marine.

4/823: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/unemersanspoissons> : SCORE = 2.866071
Doc : Une mer sans poissons
Glossaire

5/824: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lamerplusjamaisrecommencee> : SCORE = 2.866071
Doc : La mer plus jamais recommencée


6/825: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/emeforumhalieumetrique> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : 7ème Forum Halieumétrique,
Du plancton dans la mer jusqu'au poisson dans l'assiette du consommateur, une grande diversité de processus
s'enchaînent ou s'entrecroisent dans un secteur halieutique. D'une extrémité à l'autre de ce réseau les échelles
de taille des entités, leur étendue spatiale ou leur caractéristique de temps changent.
Sur ce dernier aspect, la dynamique d'un système halieutique est par exemple la combinaison de phénomènes
naturels plutôt à grande période (e.g., changements globaux) et de dynamiques humaines plutôt à grande
fréquence (e.g., plonger une ligne dans l'eau). De plus, les échelles de temps caractéristiques ne constituent pas
un ensemble fini mais plutôt un continuum, des phénomènes les plus lents aux plus instantanés.
Pouvoir appréhender la dynamique d'ensemble d'un tel système suppose donc de pouvoir rendre compte au
mieux de ces phénomènes intervenant dans le temps court ou le temps long.
La communication s'attachera à présenter cette problématique autour de trois aspects illustratifs :
1. La situation et les contraintes posées aux systèmes de régulation du fait de cette multiplicité d'échelles
temporelles et les dispositifs de recherche qui doivent être associés à ce type de contrainte.
2. Les contraintes d'observation liées au suivi, avec des ressources en général limitées, de cette diversité
d'échelles temporelles et les modalités pour y répondre dans le cadre de la conception d'observatoires.
3. Les contraintes de représentation liées à la prise en compte de phénomènes dont les échelles de
temps caractéristiques sont différentes et les artefacts de modélisation qui peuvent permettent d'y
répondre.
Des exemples tirés de travaux réalisés sur les pêches en Afrique de l'Ouest serviront de support pour une
discussion d'ordre général, et exploratoire, sur les relations et contraintes liées à la cohabitation entre temps
court et temps long.

7/826: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/emeforumhalieumetrique> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : 7ème Forum Halieumétrique,
Du plancton dans la mer jusqu'au poisson dans l'assiette du consommateur, une grande diversité de processus
s'enchaînent ou s'entrecroisent dans un secteur halieutique. D'une extrémité à l'autre de ce réseau les échelles
de taille des entités, leur étendue spatiale ou leur caractéristique de temps changent.
Sur ce dernier aspect, la dynamique d'un système halieutique est par exemple la combinaison de phénomènes
naturels plutôt à grande période (e.g., changements globaux) et de dynamiques humaines plutôt à grande
fréquence (e.g., plonger une ligne dans l'eau). De plus, les échelles de temps caractéristiques ne constituent pas
un ensemble fini mais plutôt un continuum, des phénomènes les plus lents aux plus instantanés.
Pouvoir appréhender la dynamique d'ensemble d'un tel système suppose donc de pouvoir rendre compte au
mieux de ces phénomènes intervenant dans le temps court ou le temps long.
La communication s'attachera à présenter cette problématique autour de trois aspects illustratifs :
1. La situation et les contraintes posées aux systèmes de régulation du fait de cette multiplicité d'échelles
temporelles et les dispositifs de recherche qui doivent être associés à ce type de contrainte.
2. Les contraintes d'observation liées au suivi, avec des ressources en général limitées, de cette diversité
d'échelles temporelles et les modalités pour y répondre dans le cadre de la conception d'observatoires.
3. Les contraintes de représentation liées à la prise en compte de phénomènes dont les échelles de
temps caractéristiques sont différentes et les artefacts de modélisation qui peuvent permettent d'y
répondre.
Des exemples tirés de travaux réalisés sur les pêches en Afrique de l'Ouest serviront de support pour une
discussion d'ordre général, et exploratoire, sur les relations et contraintes liées à la cohabitation entre temps
court et temps long.

8/827: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/etudedimpactdesrejetsenmerparlesystemedemissaireprofonddeladistillerierivieredumatasaintbenoitlareunionsuiviparacoustiquedesvariationsdebiomasseenpoissonautourdelemissairedeladistillerierivieredumatasaintbenoit> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Etude d'impact des rejets en mer par le système d'émissaire profond de la Distillerie Rivière du Mât à Saint-Benoît – La Réunion. Suivi par acoustique des variations de biomasse en poisson autour de l'émissaire de la distillerie Rivière du mât à Saint-Benoît.


9/828: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/pecheursdethonsetconservationdesressourcesdehautemermenacessurlethonrougedemediterranee> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Pêcheurs de thons et conservation des ressources de haute mer : menaces sur le thon rouge de Méditerranée ?




893) Recherche du mot : Hoplosthetus sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/hoplosthetus_sp)


894) Recherche du mot : Toothed-fin squid (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ctenopteryx_sicula)


895) Recherche du mot : oiseau marin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/marine_bird)


896) Recherche du mot : discipline (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/scientific_discipline)


897) Recherche du mot : Sphyraena jello (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyraena_jello)


898) Recherche du mot : Sénégal (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/senegalSea)
1/829: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/changesinthetrophicstructureoffishdemersalcommunitiesinwestafricainthethreelastdecades> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : Changes in the trophic structure of fish demersal communities in West Africa in the three last decades
Les écosystèmes marins en Afrique de l'Ouest sont très productifs et ont permis à d'importantes pêcheries de se développer rapidement au cours des dernières décennies. L'analyse de l'impact de la pêche sur les ressources exploitées est couramment conduite par des évaluations de type monospécifique. Dans cette étude, nous proposons une approche alternative qui permettrait de mieux intégrer la dimension écosystémique. En Guinée et au Sénégal, les pêcheries se sont développées récemment, parallèlement la collecte des données de débarquement et de campagnes scientifiques s'est mise en place. Aussi, les données couvrent toute une période depuis la date où les stocks étaient considérés comme non exploités jusqu'à la situation de surexploitation actuelle. Ce cas d'étude est analysé afin de regarder les changements intervenus dans la structure de l'écosystème, en particulier ceux qui pourraient être expliqués par l'augmentation de la pression de pêche. Pour cela, nous estimons des spectres trophiques et des séries de niveaux trophiques moyens pour les communautés de poissons démersaux. Un spectre trophique permet de montrer la répartition de la biomasse de l'écosystème ou la position des captures commerciales dans la chaîne trophique selon des classes de niveaux trophiques. Nous observons des changements importants dans la structure des écosystèmes guinéens et sénégalais. En particulier, la biomasse des hauts niveaux trophiques diminue tandis que celle des bas niveaux trophiques augmente ou reste relativement stable. Cette observation est peut être liée à un effet « Top-Down » du au relâchement de la prédation sur les bas niveaux trophiques. Au Sénégal, la même tendance est observée avec les donnée de captures. Par ailleurs, le niveau trophique moyen diminue significativement autant pour les captures que pour la biomasse. En Guinée, seule une diminution de la biomasse est observée en zone côtière. Globalement, ces résultats montrent que les activités de pêche ont un impact sur la structure trophique des écosystèmes et pour la première fois un effet « fishing down marine food web » est montré en Afrique de l'Ouest.

2/830: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/biologicalsurveyoffishassemblagesinaprotectedarealocatedinamangroveestuarinezonethebamboungbolongsinesaloumsenegal> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Biological survey of fish assemblages in a Protected Area located in a mangrove estuarine zone: the Bamboung Bolong (Sine Saloum, Sénégal)
Communication orale

3/831: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evolutionacourttermedespeuplementsdepoissonsdelestuairedelacasamancesenegalsuiteauneameliorationdescontraintesenvironnementales> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Evolution à court terme des peuplements de poissons de l'estuaire de la Casamance (Sénégal) suite à une « amélioration » des contraintes environnementales




899) Recherche du mot : Phronima sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/phronima_sp)


900) Recherche du mot : crustacé (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/crustacea)


901) Recherche du mot : King penguin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/aptenodytes_patagonicus)


902) Recherche du mot : Humboldt penguin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/spheniscus_humboldti)


903) Recherche du mot : Starry triggerfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/abalistes_stellatus)


904) Recherche du mot : Pota cárdena (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sthenoteuthis_oualaniensis)


905) Recherche du mot : Activité de détection (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/detection_activity)


906) Recherche du mot : Makaire à rostre court (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_angustirostris)


907) Recherche du mot : crab (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/crab)
1/832: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/effectoflipidremovaloncarbonandnitrogenstableisotoperatiosincrustaceantissues> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Effect of lipid removal on carbon and nitrogen stable isotope ratios in crustacean tissues
The analysis of tissue's naturally occurring stable carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios is a useful tool to delineate trophic relationships. However, the interpretation of [delta]13C and [delta]15N is complicated by the influence of multiple factors such as the tissue-specific lipid content. The aim of this work was to evaluate the effects of lipid extraction on [delta]13C and [delta]15N compositions in muscle, hepatopancreas and gonads of a marine decapod crustacean, the spider crab Maja brachydactyla. Samples were analyzed for stable isotopes before and after lipid removal, using a derived Soxhlet extraction method. Differences in [delta]13C and [delta]15N were measured among tissues before and after treatment. Lipid extraction of muscle did not have a significant effect on either [delta]13C or [delta]15N. By contrast, ecologically significant shifts for both carbon and nitrogen stable isotopes ratios (+ 2.9 ± 0.8[per mille sign] for [delta]13C, and + 1.2 ± 0.7[per mille sign] for [delta]15N) were noticed in the hepatopancreas. In regard to gonads, lipid extraction led to a shift only on [delta]13C (+ 1.3 ± 0.3[per mille sign]). Finally, the derived Soxhlet extraction method removed the lipid influence for [delta]13C, and had an effect on [delta]15N composition for lipid-rich samples. We recommend this treatment for carbon stable isotope studies on decapod crustacean lipid-rich tissues.

2/833: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/roleofpelagiccrustaceansinthedietofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxintheseychelleswaters> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) in the Seychelles waters
The role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox was investigated from stomach content analysis of fish collected in the waters surrounding the Seychelles Archipelago in the western Indian Ocean. Crustaceans accounted for 88.4% by prey number and 73.7% by reconstituted mass during the South-West monsoon season. During the North-East monsoon season, crustaceans remained the main prey group and accounted for 63.7% by prey number and 46% by reconstituted mass. There was a clear seasonal pattern with the portunid crab Charybdis smithii predominating during the South-West monsoon season and the pelagic stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris during the North-East monsoon season. This pattern likely reflects variations in prey availability linked to current movements around the Seychelles Archipelago. Most of the prey consisted of slow-swimming and small individuals, which occur in dense swarms during the pelagic phase of their life history. The dietary trends of lancetfish are consistent with opportunistic feeding on the most abundant prey. They exploit short food chains based on carnivorous crustaceans, and play an important role in the pelagic trophic functioning of the western Indian Ocean.

3/834: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/theswimmingcrabcharybdissmithiidistributionbiologyandtrophicroleinthepelagicecosystemofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : The swimming crab Charybdis smithii: distribution, biology and trophic role in the pelagic ecosystem of the western Indian Ocean
Surface ‘‘swarms'' of the swimming crabs Charybdis smithii are still considered as an unusual phenomenon in the open Indian Ocean, although their dense pelagic aggregations were already reported in waters off the Indian coast and in the northern Arabian Sea. Based on an extensive large-scale data series taken over 45 years, we demonstrate that C. smithii is common in the pelagic provinces of the western Indian Ocean driven by the wind monsoon regime. Swimming crabs are dispersed by the monsoon currents throughout the equatorial Indian Ocean.They aggregate at night in the upper 150-m layer, where their estimated biomass derived from pelagic trawling data can exceed 130 kg km-2. Abundance of C. smithii can reach >15,000 ind. km-2 in July (i.e. the peak of the southwest monsoon), declines by 50-fold in March and is negligible in May. C. smithii is an important prey for more than 30 species of abundant epipelagic top predators. In turn, it feeds on mesopelagic species. This swimming crab is a major species of the intermediate trophic levels and represents a crucial seasonal trophic link in the open ocean ecosystem of the western Indian Ocean. Outbursts in pelagic waters of huge biomasses of ordinarily benthic crustaceans (C. smithii and Natosquilla investigatoris) are a remarkable feature of the Indian Ocean, although similar, but smaller, events are reported in the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.

4/835: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/influenceoflipidextractiononcarbonandnitrogenstableisotopesincrustaceantissuesassessmentofpolychlorobiphenylbioaccumulationinthespidercrabfoodwebusingstableisotopes> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Influence of lipid extraction on carbon and nitrogen stable isotopes in crustacean tissues. Assessment of polychlorobiphenyl bioaccumulation in the spider crab food web using stable isotopes.


5/836: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/congenerspecificaccumulationandtrophictransferofpolychlorinatedbiphenylsinspidercrabfoodwebsrevealedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Congener-specific accumulation and trophic transfer of  polychlorinated biphenyls in spider crab food webs revealed by stable isotope analysis
Polychlorobiphenyls (PCB) and stable isotopes (δ15N and δ13C) were analyzed in the spider crab (Maja brachydactyla) food web from the Iroise Sea (Western Brittany) and the Seine Bay (Eastern English Channel). PCB concentrations were all significantly higher in organisms from the Seine Bay than those from the Iroise Sea. PCB patterns were strongly related to the feeding mode of the species, and increased influence of higher chlorinated congeners was highlighted with trophic position of the organisms. PCB concentrations (lipid normalized) were significantly related to the isotopically derived trophic level (TL) in spider crab food webs. The highest trophic magnification factors (TMFs) were calculated for the congeners with 2,4,5-substitution, and were lower in the Seine Bay compared to the Iroise Sea. The confrontation of PCB and TL data also revealed biotransformation capacity of decapod crustaceans for specific congeners based on structure–activity relations.

6/837: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofstablesignaturesdcanddnintwospidercrabpopulationsmajabrachydactylainwesterneurope> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Variability of stable signatures (d13C and d15N) in two spider crab populations (Maja brachydactyla) in Western Europe
The ontogenic variations of nitrogen and carbon stable isotopic signatures (δ15N and δ13C) were investigated in two spider crab (Maja brachydactyla) populations inhabiting in different biotopes of Western Europe. The Iroise Sea population is localized in Western Brittany and characterized by a seasonal migration occurring on a large bathymetric and habitat gradient while the Seine Bay population, in the Eastern English Channel, remains in a more homogeneous environment during its migration. In the Iroise Sea population, δ13C values increased significantly both with body size and age, revealing a shift towards “benthic-component” prey with spider crab growth. On the contrary, neither body size nor ageing gave rise to a significant trophic level change (derived from the δ15N). In this M. brachydactyla population, the seasonal migrations from coastal waters in summer to offshore habitats in winter involved significant but slight differences in both δ13C and δ15N. In the Seine Bay population, low variations for both carbon and nitrogen were recorded related to either sex or size or seasonal migration. Thus, the δ13C and δ15N variability in the spider crab depends on the availability and diversity of prey in its different living habitats, as well as on the morphological aptitudes of individuals to feed on prey (individual's size).

7/838: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/regionalfeedingpatternsofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Regional feeding patterns of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) of the western Indian Ocean
The food composition of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox Lowe, 1833) was studied in two areas belonging to different biogeographic provinces of the western Indian Ocean: Indian Monsoon Gyres Province (MONS) and Indian South Subtropical Gyre Province (ISSG). A total of 158 lancetfish were sampled during two research longline cruises in 1986-1987: 50 within the MONS, from the western equatorial area (between the EEZs of Kenya and Seychelles) and 108 within the ISSG, from the northern part of the EEZ of Mauritius (Saya-de-Malha Bank – Agalega Islands area). In the equatorial area, 135 prey items (of 18 families or higher taxa) were found in the lancetfish stomachs. In the waters of Mauritius, 476 prey items of 53 taxa were recorded. Regional variability in the feeding habits reflects province-specific differences in the prey abundance and the structure of pelagic communities of the intermediate trophic levels. Large predatory crustaceans dominate in the waters of MONS, while they are absent in the poor waters of ISSG. Foraging success of the lancetfish on non-evasive prey was 3.2 times higher in the MONS than in the ISSG. In overall, swimming crab, Hyperiidea, conspecifics, barracudina, hatchetfish, hammerjaw, and Polychaeta were the predominant prey of the lancetfish. Great differences in the food composition of ‘small' (FL

8/839: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragefaunainthedietofthreelargepelagicfishlancetfishswordfishandyellowfintunainthewesternequatorialindianocean> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Forage fauna in the diet of three large pelagic fish (lancetfish, swordfish and yellowfin tuna) in the western equatorial Indian Ocean
Prey composition and resource partitioning were investigated among three large pelagic fish predators, yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox), in a poorly known oceanic area, the western Indian Ocean. The contents of 380 non-empty stomachs were analysed from specimens caught with longlines during scientific cruises carried out from 2001 to 2003. Diet data were processed by occurrence, mean proportion by number, wet weight, and mean proportion by reconstituted weight. Crustaceans, dominated by the swimming crab Charybdis smithii and the stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris, were the major food source of lancetfish. Cannibalism was also significant for that species. Yellowfin tunas preyed upon a large diversity of mesopelagic fishes, crustaceans (C. smithii and crab larvae) and cephalopods (the ommastrephid Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis). Mesopelagic fishes (Cubiceps pauciradiatus and Diretmoides parini) and cephalopods (mainly S. oualaniensis) were the main prey of swordfish. Diet overlap between swordfish and yellowfin tuna was evidenced by high Morisita-Horn index. But the feeding habits of these three predators differed by foraging depth and prey size, with swordfish feeding at deeper depths and on larger prey than the more epipelagic lancetfish and yellowfin tuna. Using these three predators as biological samplers, the present study provides novel data on micronekton fauna that is poorly documented in the western Indian Ocean: 67 families and 84 species of prey were recovered in the stomach contents, and our results indicate the presence of large resources of pelagic crustaceans that play a primary role in the epipelagic food chain.



908) Recherche du mot : Océan Atlantique Sud (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/southAtlanticOcean)


909) Recherche du mot : Canthidermis maculatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/canthidermis_maculatus)


910) Recherche du mot : Télédétection (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/remote_sensing)


911) Recherche du mot : purse_seiner (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/purse_seiner)


912) Recherche du mot : Thazards non classés (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_sp)


913) Recherche du mot : Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/aep)


914) Recherche du mot : Atún aleta negra (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_atlanticus)


915) Recherche du mot : Omosudis lowei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/omosudis_lowei)


916) Recherche du mot : Juveniles côtiers (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/juveniles_cotiers)


917) Recherche du mot : Naso sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/naso_sp)


918) Recherche du mot : high sea ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/high_sea_ecosystem)


919) Recherche du mot : Lepas anatifera (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lepas_anatifera)


920) Recherche du mot : Géostatistiques (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/spatial_statistics)


921) Recherche du mot : plan de cuve (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/cuve_plan)


922) Recherche du mot : plaine abyssale (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/abyssal_plain)


923) Recherche du mot : Great white shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharodon_carcharias)


924) Recherche du mot : seamount chain (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/seamountchain)


925) Recherche du mot : Shortfin scad (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/decapterus_macrosoma)


926) Recherche du mot : Gempylidae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/gempylidae)


927) Recherche du mot : Avel Vad (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/avel_vad)


928) Recherche du mot : Target species (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/target_species)
1/840: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/whythenumberofhooksperbaskethpbisnotagoodproxyindicatorofthemaximumfishingdepthindriftinglonglinefisheries> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Why the number of hooks per basket (HPB) is not a good proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth in drifting longline fisheries?
The effects of targeting in longline fisheries have major impacts on CPUE (catch per unit effort). To target large pelagic fishes in longline fisheries, fishermen deployed several tactics according to the target species. For a given species, the tactic depends on both the season and the fishing ground. One of major aims of the fishing tactic is to set the longline for optimizing the overlap between the distribution of hook depths and the supposed preferential vertical habitat of the target species. Thus, the maximum fishing depth (MFD) of the longline is recognized as a key parameter for estimating the distribution of hook depths and then to standardize fishing effort. In this context, the number of hooks per basket (HPB) is commonly used as a proxy indicator of MFD (this information has been collected for the Japanese longline fishery since 1975). Unfortunately HPB is not a good proxy indicator of MFD. In the first part of this work we illustrate why our previous affirmation is consistent from a theoretical point of view. Second, we analyse depth series recorded with time depth recorders (TRDs) at the deepest point of the mainline (data collected during instrumented longline experiments carried out in the French Polynesia EEZ, central South Pacific). We observe variations of depths recorded during the soak time and we compare the calculated mean depth of depth series with the theoretical MFD (catenary formula). The mean depth appears as the better proxy indicator of the MFD which can be used to estimate the distribution of hook depths. Finally, we discuss relevant data which must be collected by both observers and fishermen in order to improve analysis of the fishing effort in longline fisheries. These data are crucial to standardize appropriately longline CPUE and to correct for potential bias. Statistical models (even the most sophisticated, such as habitat based model, GLM, GAM, GLMM or neural networks) could not supplant for the lack of such input information.

2/841: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabiladultothunnusalbacaresdelaflotadecercotropicaleuropeaeneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Actualizacion de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil adulto (thunnus albacares) de la flota de cerco tropical europea en el oceano atlantico de 1980 a 2006
This document presents a standardized index update of adult yellowfin (>30 kg) of tropical purse seine fleets in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006. The data used were taken from spear fishing logbooks and detailed information of the fleet. The standardization has been carried out by generalized linear models (GLM) using the delta model. The standardized indices are obtained from the GLM model estimations: one is calculated from the least squares means (LSMeans) and another from the annual averages of the adjusted values. The variability of the latter is lower. Therefore, in this case, it is a more adequate index to be used in assessment models. The year, country, category, age of vessel and catches of skipjack tuna, which is the other target species of these fleets, were considered as explanatory variables.

3/842: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/therelevanceofsizeparametersasindicatorsoffisheryexploitationintwowestafricanreservoirs> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : The relevance of size parameters as indicators of fishery exploitation in two West African reservoirs
Abstract  Fish communities living within the artificial reservoirs of Manantali and Selingue in Mali are compared after the monitoring
of small-scale fishery landings over 13 months (May 2002–June 2003). The fishing pressure constitutes the main difference
of these two similar reservoirs. The effects of fishing on the structure of the fish communities are analyzed by using fish
size spectra and derived indicators. In Selingue Reservoir, the fishing gears mostly target smaller species (mean length of
165 mm) than in Manantali Reservoir (mean length of 210 mm). Unlike in Selingue, the size structure does not change between
seasons in Manantali. In Selingue, fishing practices that target the fish recruitment of the year constitute a structuring
factor of the fish sizes observed in the catches. In spite of similar values of the slopes of the global fish communities'
size spectra between the two reservoirs, they clearly display an intense exploitation at Selingue. Then, size-based spectra
indicators represent a potential tool for assessing the impact of fishing on fish communities in small-scale fisheries.

4/843: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialconsiderationsforthedakhlastockofoctopusvulgarisindicatorspatternsandfisheriesinteractions> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Spatial considerations for the Dakhla stock of Octopus vulgaris: indicators, patterns and fisheries interactions
The common octopus (Octopus vulgaris) is the target species of the cephalopod fishery that exploits two stocks, Dakhla and Cap Blanc, off southern Morocco (26 degrees N 21 degrees N), an area commonly referred to as the Saharan Bank. Octopus vulgaris is also one of the most abundant demersal species in this highly productive area, and plays a key role in the upwelling ecosystem. Spatial patterns of the main phases of the octopus vulgaris life cycle of the Dakhla stock are described, using trawl surveys carried out twice a year from 1998 to 2003. Using geostatistics and spatial indicators, mature females and juveniles are analysed and mapped to characterize the main features of the spawning and recruitment phases. There are clear distinctions between the spatial patterns of the spawning and recruitment phases: juveniles are more coastal, less spatially dispersed, more anisotropically distributed, and more patchy. Our results suggest that the spatial pattern of the Octopus vulgaris Dakhla stock is different from that of the same species in other ecosystems such as the Mediterranean. GIS reveals that the spawning-stock biomass is globally more accessible to the industrial fleet than to the artisanal one, a finding contrary to contemporary thinking and with important resource management implications.

5/844: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/madepreliminaryinformationonanewecprojecttoproposemeasurestomitigateadverseimpactsofopenoceanfisheriestargetinglargepelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : MADE: preliminary information on a new EC project to propose measures to mitigate adverse impacts of open ocean fisheries targeting large pelagic fish
A particular attention has been paid worldwide on longline fisheries as they catch considerable amount of by-catch (seabirds, turtles, sharks, etc.). Seabird and turtles by-catch mitigation methods have now been established in many fisheries worldwide, but similar efforts must be put to reduce by-catch of sharks. In the same ecosystems, another issue attracts the attention of international tuna commissions: the use of drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs). These FADs are responsible for major catches of juvenile tuna and non target pelagic species (sharks). Finally, the effects of thousands of FADs released regularly in the tropical oceans are unknown, and must be studied to estimate if they impact the biology of pelagic species. The European open ocean tropical and Mediterranean pelagic fishery (Spain, France, Portugal, Italy, Greece) is one of the main sources of catch, income and employment for the European fishery, with interactions with many developing countries. The MADE project was set up to develop measures to mitigate adverse impacts of fisheries targeting large pelagic fish in the open ocean: purse seiners using FADs and longliners. This 4-year project, started in mid-2008 within the 7th EC Framework Programme, and is a cooperative research carried out under the coordination of IRD, including 13 scientific institutions belonging to 6 European Countries and 2 ICPC countries in three different areas (Mediterranean Sea, Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean). Two main categories of mitigation measures will be studied: spatial management issues (e.g. closure areas) and technical solutions to reduce by-catch in these fisheries. The main concept of MADE is to follow a multi-disciplinary and comparative approach, combining biological and technological studies with economical analyses in different sites (Indian and Atlantic oceans, Mediterranean Sea), with a particular effort to closely associate fishers.

6/845: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.

7/846: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/stablecarbonandnitrogenisotopeanalysisofthenephropsnorvegicusmerlucciusmerlucciusfishinggroundsinthebayofbiscaynortheastatlantic> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Stable carbon and nitrogen isotope analysis of the Nephrops norvegicus/Merluccius merluccius fishing grounds in the Bay of Biscay (Northeast Atlantic)
The trophic structure of the benthic ecosystem of the Grande Vasière (Great Mud Bank), a heavily trawled area in the Bay of Biscay, is largely unknown. To better understand the biotic interactions between exploited species (mainly Norway lobster, Nephrops norvegicus, and European hake, Merluccius merluccius) and their competitors and prey, we applied a dual stable carbon (13C/12C) and nitrogen (15N/14N) isotope analysis to determine trophic levels and differences in the potential food sources of species in the benthic and demersal communities. Five main groups of species constitute the basis of the trophic structure. They are distributed in three main trophic levels: primary consumers; secondary consumers including N. norvegicus and juvenile M. merluccius; and top predators including adult M. merluccius (δ15N = 14.5). The large differences in δ13C values within the primary consumers attest to two different food components: a pelagic component composed of fresh sedimenting particulate organic matter, which mainly supplies supra- and epi-benthic suspension feeders, and zooplankton, and a benthic component, which mainly supplies deposit feeders. For the predators, the target species, and their competitors, diet changes during the life-span are reflected by differences in isotope values for the size classes.

Résumé : La structure trophique de l'écosystème benthique de la Grande Vasière, une importante zone de pêche au chalut de fond du Golfe de Gascogne, demeure encore méconnue. Afin de mieux comprendre les interactions biotiques entre les espèces exploitées (principalement la langoustine, Nephrops norvegicus, et le merlu, Merluccius merluccius) et leurs concurrents et proies, une analyse des isotopes sables du carbone (13C/12C) et de l'azote (15N/14N) a été réalisée pour étudier les différents niveaux trophiques et mettre en évidence l'existence de différentes sources de nourriture potentielles des communautés benthiques et démersales. Cinq principaux groupes trophiques constituent la base de la structure de la chaîne alimentaire. Trois niveaux trophiques ont été identifiés : consommateurs primaires, consommateurs secondaires (N. norvegicus et les juvéniles de M. merluccius) et les supers prédateurs comme les adultes de M. merluccius (δ15N = 14,5 ). Les grandes différences de δ13C au sein des consommateurs primaires attestent de deux différentes sources de nourriture : l'une pélagique composée de matière organique particulaire fraîche sédimentant, qui alimente principalement les suspensivores supra- et épi-benthiques, et le zooplancton et l'autre benthique qui alimente les déposivores. Les changements de régimes alimentaires des prédateurs, l'espèce cible et leurs compétiteurs, au cours de leur vie, se traduisent par des différences isotopiques entre les différentes classes de taille.



929) Recherche du mot : Acanthephyra Sanguinea (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/acanthephyra_sanguinea)


930) Recherche du mot : Biologie (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/biology)
1/847: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lescrevettescotieresdemadagascarbiologieexploitationgestion> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Les crevettes côtières de Madagascar: Biologie, exploitation, gestion
Depuis les années 1960, les crevettes côtières de Madagascar font l'objet d'une intense exploitation. Elles représentent l'une des principales ressources de devises du pays et constituent à ce titre un enjeu convoité par les investisseurs, mais aussi par les pêcheurs traditionnels. Du fait de l'augmentation de la pression de pêche, la pêcherie malgache se trouve confrontée, depuis le milieu des années 1990, à des difficultés économiques croissantes, à la stagnation des débarquements, à la baisse des rendements et de la taille moyenne des captures.

Avec pour objectif d'actualiser les connaissances scientifiques sur la ressource et d'en améliorer la gestion et l'exploitation, mais également pour définir une politique d'aménagement des aires de production, le Programme national de recherche crevettière (PNRC) a été lancé en 1997 avec le soutien financier de l'Agence française de développement et l'expertise scientifique de l'Institut de recherche pour le développement (IRD).



931) Recherche du mot : Lutjanus sebae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lutjanus_sebae)


932) Recherche du mot : snubnose chub (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/kyphosus_cinerascens)


933) Recherche du mot : Makaira nigricans (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_nigricans)


934) Recherche du mot : Aluterus monoceros (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/aluterus_monoceros)


935) Recherche du mot : discipline scientifique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/scientific_discipline)


936) Recherche du mot : margouiller (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/margouiller)


937) Recherche du mot : Cap St Paul (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/cap_st_paul)


938) Recherche du mot : Caranx crysos (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/caranx_crysos)


939) Recherche du mot : Euthynnus alleteratus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/euthynnus_alleteratus)
1/848: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.



940) Recherche du mot : écosystème (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/coral_ecosystem)


941) Recherche du mot : Thazard ponctué (Indo-Pacifique) (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_guttatus)


942) Recherche du mot : Fou à pieds rouges (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sula_sula)


943) Recherche du mot : mako shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/isurus_oxyrhinchus)


944) Recherche du mot : helicopter (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/helicopter)


945) Recherche du mot : continental margin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/continental_margin)


946) Recherche du mot : Shortbill spearfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_angustirostris)


947) Recherche du mot : Poisson lune (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mola_mola)


948) Recherche du mot : bassin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/basin)


949) Recherche du mot : Ornithoteuthis volatilis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ornithoteuthis_volatilis)


950) Recherche du mot : Vinciguerria nimbaria (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/vinciguerria_nimbaria)


951) Recherche du mot : Sphyrna mokarran (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyrna_mokarran)


952) Recherche du mot : Iberian Sea (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/balearicSea)


953) Recherche du mot : Fou du Pérou (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sula_variegata)


954) Recherche du mot : Lampuga (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/coryphaena_hippurus)


955) Recherche du mot : Alepisaurus ferox (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alepisaurus_ferox)
1/849: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/roleofpelagiccrustaceansinthedietofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxintheseychelleswaters> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) in the Seychelles waters
The role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox was investigated from stomach content analysis of fish collected in the waters surrounding the Seychelles Archipelago in the western Indian Ocean. Crustaceans accounted for 88.4% by prey number and 73.7% by reconstituted mass during the South-West monsoon season. During the North-East monsoon season, crustaceans remained the main prey group and accounted for 63.7% by prey number and 46% by reconstituted mass. There was a clear seasonal pattern with the portunid crab Charybdis smithii predominating during the South-West monsoon season and the pelagic stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris during the North-East monsoon season. This pattern likely reflects variations in prey availability linked to current movements around the Seychelles Archipelago. Most of the prey consisted of slow-swimming and small individuals, which occur in dense swarms during the pelagic phase of their life history. The dietary trends of lancetfish are consistent with opportunistic feeding on the most abundant prey. They exploit short food chains based on carnivorous crustaceans, and play an important role in the pelagic trophic functioning of the western Indian Ocean.

2/850: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/regionalfeedingpatternsofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Regional feeding patterns of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) of the western Indian Ocean
The food composition of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox Lowe, 1833) was studied in two areas belonging to different biogeographic provinces of the western Indian Ocean: Indian Monsoon Gyres Province (MONS) and Indian South Subtropical Gyre Province (ISSG). A total of 158 lancetfish were sampled during two research longline cruises in 1986-1987: 50 within the MONS, from the western equatorial area (between the EEZs of Kenya and Seychelles) and 108 within the ISSG, from the northern part of the EEZ of Mauritius (Saya-de-Malha Bank – Agalega Islands area). In the equatorial area, 135 prey items (of 18 families or higher taxa) were found in the lancetfish stomachs. In the waters of Mauritius, 476 prey items of 53 taxa were recorded. Regional variability in the feeding habits reflects province-specific differences in the prey abundance and the structure of pelagic communities of the intermediate trophic levels. Large predatory crustaceans dominate in the waters of MONS, while they are absent in the poor waters of ISSG. Foraging success of the lancetfish on non-evasive prey was 3.2 times higher in the MONS than in the ISSG. In overall, swimming crab, Hyperiidea, conspecifics, barracudina, hatchetfish, hammerjaw, and Polychaeta were the predominant prey of the lancetfish. Great differences in the food composition of ‘small' (FL

3/851: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityinconspecificpredationamonglongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.7371012
Doc : Variability in conspecific predation among longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox in the western Indian Ocean
Conspecific predation among longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox was investigated in four spatio-temporal strate of the western Indian Ocean. The cannibalism level varied from 0 to 45.5% by frequency of occurrence and was negatively related with abundance of non-evasive prey (such as crustaceans Charybdis smithii and Natosquilla investigatoris) and foraging success. Predation by lancetfish is often described as a non-selective process, constrained by local prey availability and by its feeding speed during an attack of prey. Our results show that lancetfish may adapt its opportunistic foraging behavior, feeding on non-conspecific abundant prey such as crustaceans when available, and switching to a high level of conspecific predation in poor waters.

4/852: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragefaunainthedietofthreelargepelagicfishlancetfishswordfishandyellowfintunainthewesternequatorialindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Forage fauna in the diet of three large pelagic fish (lancetfish, swordfish and yellowfin tuna) in the western equatorial Indian Ocean
Prey composition and resource partitioning were investigated among three large pelagic fish predators, yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox), in a poorly known oceanic area, the western Indian Ocean. The contents of 380 non-empty stomachs were analysed from specimens caught with longlines during scientific cruises carried out from 2001 to 2003. Diet data were processed by occurrence, mean proportion by number, wet weight, and mean proportion by reconstituted weight. Crustaceans, dominated by the swimming crab Charybdis smithii and the stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris, were the major food source of lancetfish. Cannibalism was also significant for that species. Yellowfin tunas preyed upon a large diversity of mesopelagic fishes, crustaceans (C. smithii and crab larvae) and cephalopods (the ommastrephid Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis). Mesopelagic fishes (Cubiceps pauciradiatus and Diretmoides parini) and cephalopods (mainly S. oualaniensis) were the main prey of swordfish. Diet overlap between swordfish and yellowfin tuna was evidenced by high Morisita-Horn index. But the feeding habits of these three predators differed by foraging depth and prey size, with swordfish feeding at deeper depths and on larger prey than the more epipelagic lancetfish and yellowfin tuna. Using these three predators as biological samplers, the present study provides novel data on micronekton fauna that is poorly documented in the western Indian Ocean: 67 families and 84 species of prey were recovered in the stomach contents, and our results indicate the presence of large resources of pelagic crustaceans that play a primary role in the epipelagic food chain.



956) Recherche du mot : Giant manta (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mobula_spp)


957) Recherche du mot : Inca stern (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/larosterna_inca)


958) Recherche du mot : Regalecus spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/regalecus_spp)


959) Recherche du mot : California ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/california_ecosystem)


960) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinidae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinidae)


961) Recherche du mot : is in competition with (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/is_in_competition_with)


962) Recherche du mot : Chelonia mydas (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/chelonia_mydas)
1/853: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragingofthegreenseaturtlecheloniamydasonseagrassbedsatmayotteislandindianoceandeterminedbyacoustictransmitters> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Foraging of the green sea turtle Chelonia mydas on seagrass beds at MayotteIsland (Indian Ocean), determined by acoustic transmitters
We studied the foraging rhythms of green sea turtles Chelonia mydas on the seagrass
beds of N'Gouja Bay, Mayotte Island (Comoros Archipelago) with acoustic transmitters and moored
listening stations. We monitored 8 tagged turtles (4 probable males, 3 probable females and 1 immature),
from 70 to 109 cm curved carapace length (CCL), for durations ranging from 5 to 92 d. The
turtles exhibited a regular diel pattern: they foraged mainly during the day (on average 87% of seagrass
detections were between 06:00 and 18:00 h) and rested on the inner reef slope during the night.
Night time feeding activities were observed on the seagrass bed when the night light was high. The
presence of turtles on the seagrass bed at night was significantly correlated with a night light index
(r = 0.54, p = 0.002), which included both moon light and cloudiness indices. Behaviour of the only
immature individual observed was similar to adult turtles, although it rested more frequently around
noon. All turtles displayed a high fidelity to 1 foraging site within the seagrass bed. Acoustic transmitters
and permanent listening stations are an appropriate technique for long-term behavioural
studies of turtles, with no human interaction with turtles during tracking, and represent a suitable
technique to assess the possible effects of environmental changes or human activities upon green
turtle behaviour.



963) Recherche du mot : Myripristis sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/myripristis_sp)


964) Recherche du mot : Pota saltadora (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ommastrephes_bartrami)


965) Recherche du mot : Benguela ecosystema (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/benguela_ecosystem)


966) Recherche du mot : Bonite folle (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/katsuwonus_pelamis)


967) Recherche du mot : Taractes spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/taractes_spp)


968) Recherche du mot : Argonauta argo (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/argonauta_argo)


969) Recherche du mot : satellite (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/satellite)
1/854: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.

2/855: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usinglocalecologicalknowledgelektoprovideinsightonthetunapurseseinefleetsoftheindianoceanusefulformanagement> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Using local ecological knowledge (LEK) to provide insight on the tuna purse seine fleets of the Indian Ocean useful for management
The purse seine fishery in the Western Indian Ocean is dominated by Spanish and French vessels that rely heavily on the use of drifting fish aggregation devices (DFADs) to capture tropical tuna species (skipjack, yellowfin and bigeye tuna). This study uses local ecological knowledge (LEK) obtained through standardized interviews of fishing masters to compare and characterize the body of local ecological knowledge, fishing technology and fishing strategies of both fleets, with the goal of obtaining useful information for the management of the fishery. A notable difference between fleets was the number of DFADs actively monitored per vessel at any given time, which was much higher for Spanish vessels (ca. 60 versus 20 DFADs). Spanish vessels also achieved higher vessel CPUE (catch per DFAD set) than their French counterparts. The use of supply vessels to manage, monitor and protect productive DFADs, and the latest satellite-based technology to track and remotely monitor DFAD aggregations is restricted to the Spanish fleet. The French do not use supply vessels and deploy less sophisticated tracking buoys. These technological disparities resulted in some fishing strategy differences between both fleets, but few differences were found in the knowledge of tuna behavior accumulated by the fishers.

3/856: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/applicationofachlorophyllindexderivedfromsatellitedatatoinvestigatethevariabilityofphytoplanktoninthebenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Application of a chlorophyll index derived from satellite data to investigate the variability of phytoplankton in the Benguela ecosystem
The spatial and temporal variability in phytoplankton biomass in the Benguela ecosystem was investigated over an 8-year period using a chlorophyll index (Chi Index) derived from low resolution SeaWiFS ocean colour data. Monthly composite images revealed that the surface chlorophyll a concentration was high near the coast and generally decreased with distance offshore, allowing observation of the spatial extent of phytoplankton distribution in relation to coastal upwelling. The Chi Index was estimated as the integration of the chlorophyll a concentration from the coast to an offshore minimum level of 1mg m(-3). The index captured both the cross-shelf structure and the major part of the chlorophyllrich areas and was used to examine the average seasonality and annual variability in phytoplankton biomass. The data indicated that the Benguela ecosystem may be divided into two major sectors, north and south, with the divide occurring at the Luderitz upwelling cell where the Chi Index, the chlorophyll a concentration, and the offshore extent of phytoplankton were at a minimum. The index revealed a clearer and more contrasting seasonal pattern than simple coastal averaged values of chlorophyll. The latitudinal gradient and seasonal change in the index and wind forcing showed that the northern and southern sectors were out of phase and that the Benguela ecosystem appears to have a dipole structure. The interannual variation in biomass was highlighted and showed a high variability in the dipole, including shorter periods of synchronicity during 2001 and 2002. The simple Chi Index derived for the Benguela appears to be robust and generic enough to be applied to other upwelling systems as a reasonably good index of variability in phytoplankton biomass for comparative studies.

4/857: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparisonoflightandsstbasedgeolocationwithsatellitetelemetryinfreerangingalbatrosses> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Comparison of light- and SST-based geolocation with satellite telemetry in free-ranging albatrosses
Light-based archival tags are increasingly being used on free-ranging marine vertebrates to study their movements using geolocation estimates. These methods use algorithms that incorporate threshold light techniques to determine longitude and latitude. More recently, researchers have begun using sea surface temperature (SST) to determine latitude in temperate regions. The accuracy and application of these algorithms have not been validated on free-ranging birds. Errors in both geolocation methods were quantified by double-tagging Laysan (Phoebastria immutabilis Rothschild) and black-footed (P. nigripes Audubon) albatrosses with both leg-mounted archival tags that measured SST and ambient light, and satellite transmitters. Laysan albatrosses were captured and released from breeding colonies on Tern Island, northwestern Hawaiian Islands (23°52′N, 166°17′W) and Guadalupe Island, Mexico (28°31′N, 118°10′W) and black-footed albatrosses from Tern Island. Studies were carried out between December 2002 and March 2003. For all birds combined, the mean ± SD great circle (GC) distance between light-based locations and satellite-derived locations was 400±298 km (n=131). Errors in geolocation positions were reduced to 202±171 km (n=154) when light-based longitude and SST-based latitude (i.e. SST/light) were used to establish locations. The SST/light method produced comparable results for two Laysan albatross populations that traveled within distinctly different oceanic regions (open ocean vs more coastal) whereas light-based methods produced greater errors in the coastal population. Archival tags deployed on black-footed albatrosses returned a significantly higher proportion of lower-quality locations, which was attributed to interference of the light sensor on the tag. Overall, the results demonstrate that combining measures of light-based longitude and SST-based latitude significantly reduces the error in location estimates for albatrosses and can provide valid latitude estimates during the equinoxes, when light-based latitude measurements are indeterminate.

5/858: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hawaiianalbatrossestrackinterannualvariabilityofmarinehabitatsinthenorthpacific> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Hawaiian albatrosses track interannual variability of marine habitats in the North Pacific
We studied the foraging behavior and marine habitats used by Laysan (Phoebastria immutabilis) and black-footed (P. nigripes) albatrosses, during four consecutive breeding seasons to investigate whether these marine predators changed habitat preferences, foraging distributions, or both, in accordance with natural interannual variability in the marine environment. We used satellite telemetry to track a total of 37 Laysan and 36 black-footed albatrosses during the incubation periods of 2002-03, 2003-04, 2004-05, and 2005-06 at Tern Island, Northwest Hawaiian Islands. First passage time analysis was used to determine search effort of individual albatrosses along their respective tracks, and this metric was then related to oceanographic habitat variables using linear mixed-effects regression. The majority of individuals traveled to pelagic waters of the North Pacific, with Laysan albatrosses demonstrating a more northwesterly distribution from the breeding colony. Laysan albatrosses traveled further, for longer periods, and demonstrated greater interannual variability in trip characteristics than black-footed albatrosses. For Laysan albatrosses only, maximum distance reached was negatively correlated with body mass change during foraging and overall breeding success. There was considerable interspecific segregation of foraging habitats, and low overlap of foraging distributions between years. For all years, and both species, sea surface temperature was consistently the most important environmental variable predicting search effort of albatrosses, suggesting that both species use similar environmental cues when searching for prey. In the context of climate variability, our results suggest that Hawaiian albatrosses demonstrate flexibility in foraging strategies and track preferred marine habitats. However, adjusting foraging behavior to climatic variability may have energetic, and subsequent demographic consequences for them.

6/859: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitelinkedacousticreceiverstoobservebehavioroffishesinremoteareas> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Satellite-linked acoustic receivers to observe behavior of fishes in remote areas
Automated acoustic receivers are now widely used by biologists to study the behavior of fish. However, currently available acoustic receivers require physical recovery of the units to download stored data. Such operation is often difficult in remote study areas like in the open ocean. We present a new satellite-linked acoustic receiver (Vemco VR3-Argos) that allows downloading data through a satellite uplink (Argos). The VR3-Argos can last up to one year, sending GPS positions and tag data at regular time intervals. We illustrate the advantages of this new technology with tagging data from 121 fish of seven species (yellowfin tuna, bigeye tuna, skipjack tuna, wahoo, dolphinfish, silky shark and oceanic triggerfish) caught and released around drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean, far from any land. In opposition with the classic acoustic receivers (Vemco VR2), the use of VR3-Argos allowed to collect data for several weeks after leaving the drifting FADs. Maximum residence times of 3 days for bigeye tuna, 7 days for skipjack, 8 days for wahoo, 10 days for silky shark and 15 days for yellowfin tuna, dolphinfish and oceanic triggerfish could be recorded. VR2 and VR3-Argos are equivalent in terms of quality of residence times data, however depth data obtained through satellites are aggregated in 8 classes for compression purposes, which leads to a loss of precision available with raw data. Future directions of this technology are discussed.

7/860: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/topmarinepredatorstracklagrangiancoherentstructures> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Top marine predators track Lagrangian coherent structures
Meso- and submesoscales (fronts, eddies, filaments) in surface ocean flow have a crucial influence on marine ecosystems. Their dynamics partly control the foraging behavior and the displacement of marine top predators (tuna, birds, turtles, and cetaceans). In this work we focus on the role of submesoscale structures in the Mozambique Channel in the distribution of a marine predator, the Great Frigatebird. Using a newly developed dynamic concept, the finite-size Lyapunov exponent (FSLE), we identified Lagrangian coherent structures (LCSs) present in the surface flow in the channel over a 2-month observation period (August and September 2003). By comparing seabird satellite positions with LCS locations, we demonstrate that frigatebirds track precisely these structures in the Mozambique Channel, providing the first evidence that a top predator is able to track these FSLE ridges to locate food patches. After comparing bird positions during long and short trips and different parts of these trips, we propose several hypotheses to understand how frigatebirds can follow these LCSs. The birds might use visual and/or olfactory cues and/or atmospheric current changes over the structures to move along these biologic corridors. The birds being often associated with tuna schools around foraging areas, a thorough comprehension of their foraging behavior and movement during the breeding season is crucial not only to seabird ecology but also to an appropriate ecosystemic approach to fisheries in the channel.

8/861: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactsofkelvinwaveforcingintheperuhumboldtcurrentsystemscenariosofspatialreorganizationsfromphysicstofishers> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Impacts of Kelvin wave forcing in the Peru Humboldt Current system: Scenarios of spatial reorganizations from physics to fishers
Because climate change challenges the sustainability of important fish populations and the fisheries they support, we need to understand how large scale climatic forcing affects the functioning of marine ecosystems. In the Humboldt Current system (HCS), a main driver of climatic variability is coastally-trapped Kelvin waves (KWs), themselves originating as oceanic equatorial KWs. Here we (i) describe the spatial reorganizations of living organisms in the Humboldt coastal system as affected by oceanic KWs forcing, (ii) quantify the strength of the interactions between the physical and biological component dynamics of the system, (iii) formulate hypotheses on the processes which drive the redistributions of the organisms, and (iv) build scenarios of space occupation in the HCS under varying KW forcing. To address these questions we explore, through bivariate lagged correlations and multivariate statistics, the relationships between time series of oceanic KW amplitude (TAO mooring data and model-resolved baroclinic modes) and coastal Peruvian oceanographic data (SST, coastal upwelled waters extent), anchoveta spatial distribution (mean distance to the coast, spatial concentration of the biomass, mean depth of the schools), and fishing fleet statistics (trip duration, searching duration, number of fishing sets and catch per trip, features of the foraging trajectory as observed by satellite vessel monitoring system). Data sets span all or part of January 1983 to September 2006. The results show that the effects of oceanic KW forcing are significant in all the components of the coastal ecosystem, from oceanography to the behaviour of the top predators – fishers. This result provides evidence for a bottom-up transfer of the behaviours and spatial stucturing through the ecosystem. We propose that contrasting scenarios develop during the passage of upwelling versus downwelling KWs. From a predictive point of view, we show that KW amplitudes observed in the mid-Pacific can be used to forecast which system state will dominate the HCS over the next 2–6 months. Such predictions should be integrated in the Peruvian adaptive fishery management.

9/862: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/factorsdeterminingtheforagingrangeofwanderingalbatrossesduringtheirbreedingseasonanindividualbasedmodelibmapproach> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Factors determining the foraging range of wandering albatrosses during their breeding season : an individual based model (IBM) approach
Understanding the ecology of albatrosses at sea and in particular their foraging range and the location of their feeding zones is a critical issue for a better understanding of their population dynamics in a changing environment. Since the onset of satellite tracking techniques, it is possible to describe albatross trajectories in both space and time and infer their foraging ranges. Despite these important improvements in our observational capabilities, it is still difficult to evaluate the influence of local environmental cues such as wind and food availability on bird's trajectories. In this talk, we present an Individual Based Model (IBM) of flight pattern and foraging behaviour of free-ranging albatrosses (Diomedea exulans) breeding on the Crozet Islands, in the southwest Indian Ocean. We use winds measured by the satellite Quick-Sat and fields of food simulated by a trophodynamic model as forcing fields. In the IBM model, individuals can choose between different strategies using wind direction and food concentration. The development of the IBM follows a “pattern oriented modelling approach” (POM) in order to determine which strategy better fits the observed trajectories. The IBM is then used to infer potential new foraging areas when wind conditions and prey distribution change. The consequences of such environmental changes on albatross distribution are important issues regarding the conservation of this endangered oceanic top predator.

10/863: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/timetoeatmeasurementsoffeedingbehaviourinalargemarinepredatorthenorthernelephantsealmiroungaangustirostris> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Time to eat: measurements of feeding behaviour in a large marine predator, the northern elephant seal Mirounga angustirostris
The at-sea behaviour of marine predators is often described based on changes in behavioural states, such as transit, searching, and feeding. However, to distinguish between these behaviours, it is necessary to know the actual functions of the behaviours recorded. Specifically, to understand the foraging behaviour of marine predators, it is necessary to measure prey consumption. Therefore, the at-sea feeding behaviour of northern elephant seals (N�=�13) was examined using satellite transmitters, time-depth recorders, and stomach temperature recorders. In addition, stomach temperature telemetry allowed for the validation of indirect measures of feeding behaviour used for marine predators, including decreases in transit rate and changes in dive shape. Feeding data were recorded for the early phase of the migration (2�2201321 days). The first feeding events occurred shortly after animals departed (4�0���1�5�h) and close to the rookery (58�6���21�9�km), but these feedings were followed by extended periods without prey consumption (14�5���2�5�h). Continuous (bout) feeding did not occur until on average 7�5���1�8 days after the females left the rookery. Females showed significant differences in the feeding rate while feeding in a bout (1�320132�1 feeding events hour22121). There was a significant negative relationship between interpolated transit rate and feeding events (r2�=�0�62, P�<�0�01). Feeding, which was associated with all dive types, occurred most often during the foraging type dive shape (74�2%). Finally, successful feeding only occurred between 18201324% of the time when females displayed the foraging type dive shape suggesting that the use of dive shape alone, while indicative of behaviours associated with foraging (searching and catching prey) overestimates actual feeding behaviour. This study showed females not only feed extensively during the early migration, but there was individual variation in both foraging locations and foraging success. In addition, by combining direct and indirect measures of feeding, this study has provided support for the use of foraging indicators in marine predators.

11/864: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/alongshoreandtemporalvariabilityinchlorophyllaconcentrationinchileannearshorewaters> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Alongshore and temporal variability in chlorophyll a concentration in Chilean nearshore waters
Phytoplankton and particulate organic matter constitute the primary food source for adult filter-feeders, as well as for larval stages of many benthic and pelagic organisms. The structure and dynamics of nearshore benthic communities may be associated with variation in nearshore primary production. However, we know little about the scales of variability in phytoplankton in nearshore waters along open coasts, or about their causes. To characterize spatial and temporal patterns of chl a concentration, we conducted 2.5 yr of daily, shore-based monitoring at 3 sites separated by 10s of km within an upwelling region in central Chile. We found that: (1) peaks in chl a concentration were typically short-lived, persisting no longer than 4 d, (2) blooms occurred in spring to early summer months at all sites, but also during autumn months at 1 site (Las Cruces), and (3) the intensity and frequency of blooms were consistently different among sites; highest concentrations were at Las Cruces, lower at El Quisco, and the lowest at Quintay. Analyses of wind data and surface temperature, and inspection of Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) satellite images, suggested that among-site differences were due, at least in part, to alongshore variation in upwelling intensity and the formation of warm-water pockets or upwelling shadows in sections of the coast, such as Las Cruces. In contrast to the spatial pattern described offshore and over larger spatial scales, chl a concentrations were significantly lower at the coldest site, Quintay, located at the core of an upwelling center (Pta. Curaumilla), than at the warmer site of Las Cruces, which lies downstream from upwelling. Day-to-day variation in chl a levels during spring at Las Cruces seems related to the alongshore intrusion of waters upwelled upstream. Overall, the pattern observed at our 3 sites, together with previous studies at other upwelling systems, suggests that sections of the coast around 15 to 20 km downstream (equatorward) from upwelling centers could exhibit consistently higher phytoplankton concentrations than sites located in front of upwelling centers, generating a source-sink type of geographic pattern of nearshore nutrients and phytoplankton along the coast.

12/865: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/scaleinvariantmovementsoffishermenthesameforagingstrategyasnaturalpredators> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Scale invariant movements of fishermen: the same foraging strategy as natural predators
We analyzed the movement of fishing vessels during fishing trips in order to understand how fishermen behave in space while searching for fish. For that purpose we used hourly geo-referenced positions of vessels, provided by a satellite vessel monitoring system, for the entire industrial fleet (809 vessels) of the world's largest single species fishery (Peruvian anchovy, Engraulis ringens) from December 1999 to March 2003. Observed trajectories of fishing vessels are well modeled by Lévy random walks, suggesting that fishermen use a stochastic search strategy which conforms to the same search statistics as non-human predators. We show that human skills (technology, communication, or others) do not result in the fishermen's spatial behavior being fundamentally different from that of animal predators. With respect to probability of prey encounter, our results suggest that fishermen, on average, evolved an optimal movement pattern (μ = 2.00) among the family of Lévy random walks. This Lagrangian approach opens several perspectives in terms of operational management of the pelagic fish stock.

13/866: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitemonitoringoffishingvesselsasatooltolocalizeandestimatethefishingactivity> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Satellite monitoring of fishing vessels as a tool to localize and estimate the fishing activity


14/867: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/approachestoresolvingcephalopodmovementandmigrationpatterns> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Approaches to resolving cephalopod movement and migration patterns
Cephalopod movement occurs during all phases of the life history, with the abundance and location of cephalopod populations strongly influenced by the prevalence and scale of their movements. Environmental parameters, such as sea temperature and oceanographic processes, have a large influence on movement at the various life cycle stages, particularly those of oceanic squid. Tag recapture studies are the most common way of directly examining cephalopod movement, particularly in species which are heavily fished. Electronic tags, however, are being more commonly used to track cephalopods, providing detailed small- and large-scale movement information. Chemical tagging of paralarvae through maternal transfer may prove to be a viable technique for tracking this little understood cephalopod life stage, as large numbers of individuals could be tagged at once. Numerous indirect methods can also be used to examine cephalopod movement, such as chemical analyses of the elemental and/or isotopic signatures of cephalopod hard parts, with growing interest in utilising these techniques for elucidating migration pathways, as is commonly done for fish. Geographic differences in parasite fauna have also been used to indirectly provide movement information, however, explicit movement studies require detailed information on parasite-host specificity and parasite geographic distribution, which is yet to be determined for cephalopods. Molecular genetics offers a powerful approach to estimating realised effective migration rates among populations, and continuing developments in markers and analytical techniques hold the promise of more detailed identification of migrants. To date genetic studies indicate that migration in squids is extensive but can be blocked by major oceanographic features, and in cuttlefish and octopus migration is more locally restricted than predictions from life history parameters would suggest. Satellite data showing the location of fishing lights have been increasingly used to examine the movement of squid fishing vessels, as a proxy for monitoring the movement of the squid populations themselves, allowing for the remote monitoring of oceanic species.

15/868: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/postbreedingmovementsoffrigatebirdstrackedwithsatellitetelemetry> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Postbreeding movements of frigatebirds tracked with satellite telemetry
Using satellite telemetry, we studied the postbreeding movements of Great (Fregata minor) and Magnificent Frigatebirds (F. magnificens) at two breeding colonies in the Indian and Atlantic Oceans. After breeding failure, 67% of the birds with satellite transmitters remained on the breeding colonies and continued to perform foraging trips similar to those undertaken while breeding. Two Magnificent Frigatebirds that bred at a colony off the coast of French Guiana moved west along the coast of South America, and one of the two reached Trinidad 1400 km away. One Great Frigatebird moved 4400 km from Europa Island in the Mozambique Channel to the Maldive Islands. It roosted there for at least four months, making foraging trips of up to 240 km, mainly to an area known for its high concentration of tuna. These results show that frigatebirds are able to make rapid and directed long-distance dispersal movements to other colonies or roosting sites, although the majority of birds remain based on breeding colonies.

16/869: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleeddiesinfluencedistributionandaggregationpatternsofmicronektoninthemozambiquechannel> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Mesoscale eddies influence distribution and aggregation patterns of micronekton in the Mozambique Channel
Oceanic mesoscale circulation is a crucial structuring force for the marine environment. Dynamical processes associated with eddies such as eddy-induced upwelling or eddy-eddy interaction drive the transport and distribution of nutrients which support the whole food chain presumably through bottom-up processes. It has been largely documented that eddies can shape the distribution of both low (phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish larvae) and high trophic levels (top fish predators, seabirds or turtles) but the impact of mesoscale features on intermediate trophic levels (micronekton) remains poorly explored. In this work, we analysed the influence of eddies on the distribution of micronekton aggregations in the Mozambique Channel by combining acoustic data and satellite sea topography data. We demonstrated that large aggregations of micronekton occurred mainly in areas of high local horizontal gradient of sea level anomaly, i.e., at the periphery of eddies. We observed that eddies in the region, when running along the coast, advect at their edges coastal rich waters, which support the base of the trophic chain. We propose that eddies can shape the distribution and the aggregation patterns of the forage fauna of marine top predators through bottom-up processes.

17/870: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multipleforagingstrategiesinamarineapexpredatorthegalapagossealionzalophuswollebaeki> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Multiple foraging strategies in a marine apex predator, the Galapagos sea lion Zalophus wollebaeki
Three fundamental foraging patterns in air-breathing marine vertebrates have been described: epipelagic, mesopelagic and benthic. Many sea lion species with access to extensive continental shelves have been described as benthic foragers. Coincidently these species are considered threatened. The Galapagos sea lion Zalophus wollebaeki, a top predator in the Galapagos Islands, is also considered threatened in this ecosystem. Sea lions at the central part of the archipelago have access to a vast continental shelf. For this reason we hypothesized that sea lions within this region would dive benthically. In addition, effective protection and conservation of this species requires knowledge of their foraging patterns and habitat utilization. We investigated the diving behaviour and habitat utilization of female Z. wollebaeki of a centrally located colony situated inside the highest density area of the population using time-depth recorders and satellite telemetry. Three distinct foraging patterns were found and described (shallow, deep and bottom divers), and individuals utilizing each pattern foraged in different locations. Epipelagic, mesopelagic and benthic dives were exhibited in the sea lions' diving behaviour, but these dive types were not exclusively associated with a foraging pattern. Between foraging trips females hauled out more frequently on other islands than they did on their breeding colony. The finding of 3 distinct foraging patterns that differ spatially has direct implications for management, particularly with regard to fisheries interactions. Marine protected areas can be implemented in the regions described as Z. wollebaeki foraging areas. Z. wollebaeki's wide foraging range coupled with their use of multiple haul-out sites should be considered in future studies when determining foraging trip lengths and habitat utilization since presence/absence from the colony does not reflect foraging trip length.

18/871: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fadiofishaggregatingdevicesasintrumentedobservatoriesofpelagicecosystemsaeuropeanunionfundedprojectondevelopmentofnewobservationalinstrumentsandthebehavioroffisharoundfads> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : FADIO (Fish Aggregating Devices as Intrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) : a European Union funded project on development of new observational instruments and the behavior of fish around FADs
Associative behavior is a major component of the life of pelagic fish. Tropical tuna and other
species are often found in association with floating objects, with other animals, and with topographic
features such as seamounts. Because fish are more abundant, occur in larger schools, or are easier to catch
when aggregated, fishermen extensively use these associations to increase their catches. More than 50%
of the world tuna catches are made from schools associated with floating objects.
There is a clear need for new technologies to study these associations and to propose innovative
methods of management. The European Union has funded a project to study the requirements of future
assessment tools and to develop prototypes. The project: FADIO1 (Fish Aggregating Devices as
Instrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) has conducted five extensive field surveys of the
Western Indian Ocean in conjunction with the large-scale purse seine fishery operating on drifting FADs
that operates in this region.
The objectives of FADIO are to develop new observation and assessment tools and collect data
on the behavior of pelagic fish around drifting FADs. Two categories of instruments are being developed
in collaboration with manufacturers: (1) autonomous buoys equipped with 360º sonar and cameras to
observe aggregations, acoustic receivers to detect individuals carrying electronic tags and satellite uplinks
for both, (2) new electronic tags with ecological sensors. Various field experiments are conducted to
assist in the development of these prototypes. During these scientific cruises, different instruments and
methods are used to document the behavior of associated species concurrently resident on the same FAD,
including: fishing and acoustic tagging, passive and active acoustic surveys, and underwater visual
census. Those observations, combined together, provide valuable insights in the dynamics of FAD
aggregations.
These instruments can be used in the future (i) to build the foundation for future observatories of
pelagic ecosystems, using FADs as scientific platforms for observation and data collection, (ii) to
understand the effects of FADs on tuna and other associated species, even in remote areas, (iii) to help
reducing by-catch around FADs. FADIO began in 2003 and will end in Oct. 2006, with an exposition and
workshop at the Oceanographic Museum in Monaco.



970) Recherche du mot : Silvertip shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_albimarginatus)


971) Recherche du mot : crew (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/crew)
1/872: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.



972) Recherche du mot : Hyporhamphus sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/hyporhamphus_sp)


973) Recherche du mot : Mollusque (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/mollusca)


974) Recherche du mot : Mozambique Channel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mozambiqueChannel)
1/873: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/patternsofvariabilityofseasurfacechlorophyllinthemozambiquechannelaquantitativeapproach> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Patterns of variability of sea surface chlorophyll in the Mozambique Channel:A quantitative approach
We analyse the coupling between sea surface chlorophyll concentration (CC) and the physical environment in the Mozambique Channel (MZC) using statistical models. Seasonal and interannual patterns are studied along with the role of mesoscale dynamics on enhancement and concentration processes for phytoplankton. We use SeaWifs data for CC and two other remotely sensed data sets, TMMI for sea surface temperature (SST) and merged altimetry products for sea level anomaly and geostrophic current. Empirical Orthogonal Functions (EOF) on SSC and SST show strong seasonality and partition the MZC into three distinct sub-areas. The chlorophyll variability is mostly driven by seasonality, but more in the North (10°S–16°S) and South (24°S–30°S), and explains respectively 64% and 82% of the CC variance. In the Central part (16°S–24°S), the seasonal signal has less influence (60% variance). There, complex EOFs on Sea Level Anomaly (SLA) highlight the role of mesoscale activity (i.e. eddies and filament structures) in the spatial distribution of chlorophyll. Five mesoscale descriptors (shear, stretch, vorticity, deformation and eddy kinetic energy) are derived from the altimetry data to quantify the eddies-related physical patterns in the central region of the MZC. We use generalized Additive Models to explain the effect of those features on phytoplankton enhancement. The best model fit (r2=0.73) includes shear, stretch, vorticity and the latitude-longitude interaction as eddies are well structured in space. Cyclonic eddies associated with negative vorticity are conductive to phytoplankton enhancement by the effect of upwelling in the core notably during the spin-up phase. The interaction between eddies generate strong frontal mixing favourable to the production and aggregation of organic matter. The mesoscale activity is also affected by interannual variability with consequences on CC. We highlight a substantial reduction of the SLA pattern in 2000–2001 when the SOI positive phase is peaking (Nina-type pattern). The strong relationship between mesoscale eddies and SOI suggests that primary productivity in the MZC is also under the influence of distant forcing at a basin scale.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

2/874: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acousticcharacterizationoftropicaltunapreyinthewesternindianoceaninrelationwithenvironmentalconditions> : SCORE = 1.7729216
Doc : Acoustic characterization of tropical tuna prey in the Western Indian Ocean in relation with environmental conditions
From 2002 to 2004, four scientific cruises were conducted by the Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD) in the Mozambique Channel (Western Indian Ocean), in order to study the pelagic habitat of large top predators such as tuna and tuna-like species. Acoustic data were recorded to investigate the spatial and temporal distribution of plankton layers and micronekton aggregations. Top predators (tunas and tuna-like species) that were caught by longlines were considered as biological samplers of the micronekton organisms. The Sea Level Anomalies (SLA) were used to characterize the presence of a persistent field of mesoscale anticyclonic gyres in the Mozambique Channel. In this study, we studied the possible links between the mesocale dynamics of the eddies, the presence of prey detected by acoustics, and the diet of tunas caught by longlines. We attempted to demonstrate the importance of mesoscale dynamics for the productivity in this area (i.e., occurrence of cyclonic eddies in the Mozambique Channel) for the distribution of the micronekton organisms that are consumed by the top predators.

3/875: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/topmarinepredatorstracklagrangiancoherentstructures> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Top marine predators track Lagrangian coherent structures
Meso- and submesoscales (fronts, eddies, filaments) in surface ocean flow have a crucial influence on marine ecosystems. Their dynamics partly control the foraging behavior and the displacement of marine top predators (tuna, birds, turtles, and cetaceans). In this work we focus on the role of submesoscale structures in the Mozambique Channel in the distribution of a marine predator, the Great Frigatebird. Using a newly developed dynamic concept, the finite-size Lyapunov exponent (FSLE), we identified Lagrangian coherent structures (LCSs) present in the surface flow in the channel over a 2-month observation period (August and September 2003). By comparing seabird satellite positions with LCS locations, we demonstrate that frigatebirds track precisely these structures in the Mozambique Channel, providing the first evidence that a top predator is able to track these FSLE ridges to locate food patches. After comparing bird positions during long and short trips and different parts of these trips, we propose several hypotheses to understand how frigatebirds can follow these LCSs. The birds might use visual and/or olfactory cues and/or atmospheric current changes over the structures to move along these biologic corridors. The birds being often associated with tuna schools around foraging areas, a thorough comprehension of their foraging behavior and movement during the breeding season is crucial not only to seabird ecology but also to an appropriate ecosystemic approach to fisheries in the channel.

4/876: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/influenceofmesoscaleeddiesonspatialstructuringoftoppredatorscommunitiesinthemozambiquechannel> : SCORE = 4.094387
Doc : Influence of mesoscale eddies on spatial structuring of top predators communities in the Mozambique Channel


5/877: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparativeforagingecologyandecologicalnicheofasuperabundanttropicalseabirdthesootyternsternafuscatainthesouthwestindianocean> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Comparative foraging ecology and ecological niche of a superabundant tropical seabird: the sooty tern Sterna fuscata in the southwest Indian Ocean
Over 6-million pairs of sooty terns Sterna fuscata breed once a year in the southwest Indian Ocean, mostly on three islands of the Mozambique Channel (Europa, Juan de Nova and Glorieuses) and in the Seychelles region. Seasonal reproduction in either winter or summer is the dominant strategy in the area, but nonseasonal reproduction also occurred in some places like at Glorieuses Archipelago. The feeding ecology of the sooty tern was investigated during the breeding seasons to determine whether terns showed signiWcant diVerences in their trophic ecology between locations. Regurgitations were analyzed to describe the diet of individuals when breeding, and stable isotopes and mercury concentrations were used to temporally integrate over the medium-term of the trophic ecology of both adults and chicks. Overall, the diet was composed of fish, flying squid and fish larvae in different proportions. At Europa and Aride in the Seychelles, where winter reproduction occurs, large epipelagic prey like flying fish or squid dominated the diet. At Juan de Nova, sooty terns reproduce in summer and rely mostly on fish larvae. At Glorieuses (non-seasonal breeding), the diet was intermediate with fish larvae and flying squid being important prey items. The stable-carbon and nitrogen isotope values in blood confirm the differences observed in dietary analysis, and demonstrate different feeding strategies between colonies...δ13 C values of feathers showed spatial segregation between birds from the Mozambique Channel and the Seychelles region. Terns from the Seychelles had also higher δ15 N values. Feather δ13 C values also suggest a significant shift from summer to wintering habitat for birds from Juan de Nova. This study emphasizes the high phenotypic plasticity of the species, which may explain its numerical dominance in all tropical waters of the World's Ocean.

6/878: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mercurycontentincommercialpelagicfishanditsriskassessmentinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Mercury content in commercial pelagic fish and its risk assessment in the Western Indian Ocean
As top predators of pelagic food webs, large fish naturally bioaccumulate mercury (Hg). Determining Hg burdens in commercialized fish is essential considering the concern about effects of contaminants on human health and the legal thresholds that are therefore set for local consumption and/or exportation. Total Hg levels were measured in the muscular tissue of 183 fish of five commercially important species from the tropical zone of the Western Indian Ocean. All individuals were measured and sexed in order to study the impregnation of Hg with size and sex within each species. Values of Hg found in this part of the Indian Ocean were comparable to Hg in muscular tissue of the same species studied in other areas. The highest Hg levels were noted in Swordfish (Xiphias gladius) caught in waters surrounding Reunion Island (3.97 ± 2.67 μg.g−1 dry weight). Following the Swordfish, in decreasing order of Hg content, were the Yellowfin Tuna (Thunnus albacares) and the Skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), then the Common Dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) and the Wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri ). In the North of the Mozambique Channel, Swordfish had higher Hg levels than Yellowfin Tunas, and Dolphinfish exhibited intermediate Hg levels. The size of a fish was a determinating factor of its Hg burden, as was the species. Differences in size-normalized Hg levels were observed between the two study zones for Swordfish and Common Dolphinfish. Sex, in contrast, did not influence Hg levels suggesting that females and males have similar feeding habits. The muscular Hg levels presented here suggest that consumers of fish originating from theWestern Indian Ocean should limit themselves to one Swordfish based meal per week, or one fish meal a day if they choose to eat tuna or Common Dolphinfish.

7/879: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/resourcepartitioningwithinatropicalseabirdcommunitynewinformationfromstableisotopes> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Resource partitioning within a tropical seabird community: new information from stable isotopes
Characteristics of the tropical oceanic environment (low productivity, little seasonality) and poor diversity of tropical seabird foraging methods and prey relative to temperate and polar species suggest that tropical seabirds overall encompass a narrow range of isotopic niches, with large overlaps among species. To test this hypothesis, we examined the stable carbon (δ13C) and nitrogen (δ15N) isotopic composition of blood and feathers of 5 seabird species from Europa Island, Mozambique Channel. While differences were small, blood δ13C and δ15N values characterized 5 distinct and non-overlapping trophic niches during the breeding period. Seabirds used 2 distinct foraging areas (δ13C), one used by sooty tern Sterna fuscata and white-tailed tropicbird Phaethon lepturus and one used by red-footed booby Sula sula and great Fregata minor and lesser F. ariel frigatebirds. Seabird species overall encompassed less than 1 trophic level (δ15N), which is in agreement with a diet mainly based on flying fish and squid. Feather δ13C and δ15N values showed that the trophic structure of the community was different during the breeding and non-breeding (moulting) periods, suggesting a shift in the feeding ecology when adult birds were no longer central-place foragers. The stable isotope method underlined sex-related (red-footed booby) and age-related (great frigatebird immatures and adults) feeding strategies. It also suggested that breeding adults could feed themselves on different prey than those given to their chicks (sooty tern). Within the tropical pelagic ecosystem, seabirds overall shared the same trophic level as large predatory fishes (albacore, yellowfin and skipjack tunas), but they had lower δ15N values than the deeper-dwelling bigeye tuna and swordfish. We conclude that analyzing stable isotope values in blood and feathers appears to be a promising alternative method for investigating food and feeding ecology of tropical seabirds year round, and for determining sex- and age-related differences in their foraging strategies. A limitation of the method is the lack of information on marine isoscapes; future studies aimed at isotopically characterizing the tropical marine environment could help to associate consumer signatures to geographic origins.

8/880: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/influenceofmesoscalestructuresonbiologicalcompartmentsandfisheriesinthemozambiquechannel> : SCORE = 4.094387
Doc : Influence of mesoscale structures on biological compartments and fisheries in the Mozambique Channel


9/881: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragingstrategyofatropicalseabirdtheredfootedboobyinadynamicmarineenvironment> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Foraging strategy of a tropical seabird, the red-footed booby, in a dynamic marine environment
The foraging behaviour of animals depends on the distribution, abundance and predictability
of their food resources. In the marine environment, top predators such as seabirds are
known to concentrate their foraging effort in specific oceanic features where productivity is elevated
or prey concentrated. When marine productivity is low and prey distribution unpredictable, such as
in tropical waters, selection should favour the evolution of flexible foraging strategies. By using GPS,
Argos transmitters and activity recorders, we studied the foraging strategy of red-footed boobies
(RFBs) Sula sula breeding on Europa Island in the Mozambique Channel, to examine the way a central
place forager searches for prey in tropical waters. RFBs only foraged during the day-time and
never sat on the water at night; thus, they consequently had a limited maximum foraging range of
148 km. Primary production within this range was low overall (average 0.165 mg chlorophyll m–3),
with a high spatial and temporal heterogeneity due to the presence of strong geostrophic currents
and surface mixing by storms. RFBs appear to adjust their foraging strategy to cope with this situation.
Individual birds do not return to the same oceanic sites from one trip to the next, but generally
head in the direction of zones where productivity is enhanced. Active foraging, i.e. periods when
birds spent time on the sea surface or dived, occurred at the most distant part of the foraging trip.
Despite their limited foraging range and the low productivity of surrounding waters, red-footed boobies
are able to track zones of prey availability located in areas of enhanced primary production.
Searching is probably favoured by the presence of sub-surface predators that chase prey to the surface.
The foraging strategy of this tropical sulid appears to differ extensively from that of temperate
or polar seabirds whose prey distribution and availability are more predictable.

10/882: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/postbreedingmovementsoffrigatebirdstrackedwithsatellitetelemetry> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Postbreeding movements of frigatebirds tracked with satellite telemetry
Using satellite telemetry, we studied the postbreeding movements of Great (Fregata minor) and Magnificent Frigatebirds (F. magnificens) at two breeding colonies in the Indian and Atlantic Oceans. After breeding failure, 67% of the birds with satellite transmitters remained on the breeding colonies and continued to perform foraging trips similar to those undertaken while breeding. Two Magnificent Frigatebirds that bred at a colony off the coast of French Guiana moved west along the coast of South America, and one of the two reached Trinidad 1400 km away. One Great Frigatebird moved 4400 km from Europa Island in the Mozambique Channel to the Maldive Islands. It roosted there for at least four months, making foraging trips of up to 240 km, mainly to an area known for its high concentration of tuna. These results show that frigatebirds are able to make rapid and directed long-distance dispersal movements to other colonies or roosting sites, although the majority of birds remain based on breeding colonies.

11/883: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleeddiesinfluencedistributionandaggregationpatternsofmicronektoninthemozambiquechannel> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Mesoscale eddies influence distribution and aggregation patterns of micronekton in the Mozambique Channel
Oceanic mesoscale circulation is a crucial structuring force for the marine environment. Dynamical processes associated with eddies such as eddy-induced upwelling or eddy-eddy interaction drive the transport and distribution of nutrients which support the whole food chain presumably through bottom-up processes. It has been largely documented that eddies can shape the distribution of both low (phytoplankton, zooplankton and fish larvae) and high trophic levels (top fish predators, seabirds or turtles) but the impact of mesoscale features on intermediate trophic levels (micronekton) remains poorly explored. In this work, we analysed the influence of eddies on the distribution of micronekton aggregations in the Mozambique Channel by combining acoustic data and satellite sea topography data. We demonstrated that large aggregations of micronekton occurred mainly in areas of high local horizontal gradient of sea level anomaly, i.e., at the periphery of eddies. We observed that eddies in the region, when running along the coast, advect at their edges coastal rich waters, which support the base of the trophic chain. We propose that eddies can shape the distribution and the aggregation patterns of the forage fauna of marine top predators through bottom-up processes.

12/884: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foraginghabitatsoftheseabirdcommunityofeuropaislandmozambiquechannel> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Foraging habitats of the seabird community of Europa Island (Mozambique Channel)
We investigated the foraging habitats of the winter breeding community of tropical seabirds from Europa Island (Mozambique Channel) in September 2003. We focused our study on the dominant species of this austral community, the sooty tern (Sterna fuscata), the red-footed booby (Sula sula), and the frigatebirds, including the great (Fregata minor) and the lesser frigatebirds (F. ariel). We considered the at-sea distribution and abundance of these species in relation to chlorophyll concentration, sea-surface temperatures, sea-surface height anomalies, depth of the thermocline, distance to the colony, and presence of surface marine predators, flying fishes and other seabirds. Although the marine environment where seabirds foraged was oligotrophic, it presents the best feeding opportunities for seabirds for the area in winter. Our study demonstrates that the winter-breeding seabird species of Europa Island tend to forage in productive waters in association with other marine predators when possible. Sooty terns and frigatebirds were widely distributed in the whole study area, whereas red-footed boobies were not found farther than 160 km from their colonies and were associated with relatively productive waters. Sooty terns and red-footed boobies were aggregated where flying fishes were abundant. The presence of other marine predators was associated with larger multispecies feeding flocks than when no association occurred. Sooty terns, which are numerically dominant at Europa and adopted network foraging, seem to be catalysts of feeding events, and represented a good target for the other foraging species, especially frigatebirds. However, when possible, frigatebirds favour association with flocks of red-footed boobies.

13/885: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bioaccumulationoftraceelementsinpelagicfishfromwesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Bioaccumulation of trace elements in pelagic fish from western Indian Ocean
Trace elements were analyzed in fish of commercial interest to determine their importance in marine systems of the Western Indian Ocean and their bioaccumulation patterns. The results are equivalent or lower than levels reported in ichthyofauna worldwide. Certain values of muscular Cd, Hg, Pb and Zn were, however, above thresholds for human consumption. Levels varied among tissues, species and fish length, but were seldom influenced by the nutritional condition of the fish, its gender and its reproductive status. Correlations between hepatic Hg and Se levels in Swordfish (r2 = 0.747) and Yellowfin Tunas (r2 = 0.226), and among metallothionein linking metals imply the existence of detoxification processes in these species. Level differences between fish from the Mozambique Channel and Reunion Island reflect differences of diets rather than differences of elemental availability in both environments.

Metal bioaccumulation was quantified in four species of pelagic fish.



975) Recherche du mot : Atlantic Spanish mackerell (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_maculatus)


976) Recherche du mot : Hammerhead shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyrna_lewini)


977) Recherche du mot : Zorro ojón (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alopias_superciliosus)


978) Recherche du mot : outil d'évaluation (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/evaluation_tool)


979) Recherche du mot : Stingrays, butterfly rays nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/dasyatidae)


980) Recherche du mot : Integrated Water Vapour (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/integratedWaterVapour)


981) Recherche du mot : CONCARNEAU (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_FRA_COC)


982) Recherche du mot : Tiger shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/galeocerdo_cuvier)


983) Recherche du mot : South American sea lion (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/otaria_flavescens)


984) Recherche du mot : DAKAR (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_DKR_SEN)
1/886: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/movementsoftropicaltunasfromthetunaassociatedbaitboatfisheryofdakarandfrombetypandhistoricaltaggingoperationsintheatlanticocean> : SCORE = 1.0637529
Doc : Movements of tropical tunas from the tuna-associated baitboat fishery of Dakar and from BETYP and historical tagging operations in the Atlantic Ocean
Tagging operations were conducted in the northern part of the Dakar baitboat fishing area
(13°N-21°N/15°W-25°W) from 1994 to 2000 (MAC program) and in the eastern Atlantic Ocean
by the BETYP program from 1999 to 2003. BETYP tagging took place in the Gulf of Guinea, in
Mauritania-Senegal (in collaboration with MAC), in the Canary, Madeira and Azores islands.
Movements of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye from Dakar baitboats are presented together with
tuna movements obtained from BETYP recoveries. These data are compared with movements
from historical tagging operations conducted from 1955 to 1998 in the entire Atlantic Ocean.
More emphasis is put on bigeye, as the main objective of BETYP is to obtain a better
understanding of bigeye stock structure and other parameters relevant to stock assessment.

2/887: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimatesofhistoricchangesintotalmortalityandselectivityforeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamisfromlengthcompositiondata> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Estimates of historic changes in total mortality and selectivity for  Eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) from length composition data
Catch-at-size data of the eastern Atlantic skipjack were used to estimate changes in total mortality from 1969 to 2007. We used a transitional model of mean length that generalized the Beverton-Holt mortality estimator to allow change in mortality rate under nonequilibrium conditions. Then, from homogeneous periods of time, length-converted catch curves were used to access qualitative changes in selectivity patterns for two surface fisheries (the baitboat fishery operating from Dakar, Senegal, and the European and associated purse seine fisheries). To explore the impact of catch on the mortality rate, a Bayesian change-point analysis was conducted on the catch time series to detect concomitant variation between mortality rates and catch. Finally, potential causes of these changes are discussed in relation to the implementation of new fishing technology, such fish aggregating devices (FAD). The general pattern depicted by total mortality is in agreement with previous knowledge on this fishery: a state of complete or practically complete exploitation during the nineties followed by the decrease in nominal purse seine fishing effort in the last decade, combined with the effect of a seasonal moratorium on FAD fishing operations. There was no evidence of a change in selectivity between the two contrasted periods of time considered: 1969-1979 and 1986-1999; the second period being characterized by the introduction of new technology onboard vessels. In contrast, the covariation over time between total catch and mortality rate three years later highlights the effect of the fishing pressure on the stock of eastern Atlantic skipjack.

3/888: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/growthofbigeyetunathunnusobesusintheeasternatlanticoceanfromtaggingrecapturedataandotolithsreadings> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Growth of bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) in the Eastern Atlantic ocean from tagging-recapture data and otoliths readings
Growth of bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) in the eastern Atlantic Ocean is studied from (1) 625
bigeye tagged and recaptured with a fork length (FL) range 37-124 cm, (2) otoliths collected on
108 bigeye in Dakar from which 83 were use to validate the growth ring deposit by oxytetracyclin
antibiotic injection, and (3) otoliths from 147 bigeye collected in Abidjan. For
otoliths, the sizes of Dakar bigeye range from 37 cm to 112 cm FL (almost all juveniles), those
from Abidjan from 29 cm to 190 cm (juveniles and adults). Growth curves obtained from the
two different sets of data are similar so all data are combined to give a single growth curve for
bigeye with K=0.180 yr-1
, L∞ = 217.3 cm and t0 = -0.709 year. The interest of this approach is
the confirmation of the daily rate for ring deposit on otoliths and the use of both tagging and
otoliths' reading to estimate growth parameters.



985) Recherche du mot : Kogia sima (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/kogia_sima)


986) Recherche du mot : requin baleine (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/rhincodon_typus)


987) Recherche du mot : Patudo (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_obesus)
1/889: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evoluciondelascapturasdejuvenilesderabilypatudodesdelaextenciondelapescasobreobjectosbalizados> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Evolucion de las capturas de juveniles de rabil y patudo desde la extencion de la pesca sobre objectos balizados
This document analyses the distribution of the catch of small yellowfin obtained for the entire
purse seine tuna fishing fleet in the Atlantic Ocean from 1991 to 2003. Catches have been
analysed by year, month, area and fishing mode (free school or floating object), in order to
define areas, seasons and fishing mode associated with largest catches of small yellowfin and
the possible relationship with the moratoria established to reduce juvenile bigeye catches.

2/890: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lespoissonsmesopelagiquesdansleschainesalimentairesuneapprocheparlesisotopesstablesducarboneetdelazotedanslecanaldemozambique> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Les poissons mesopélagiques dans les chaînes alimentaires : une approche par les isotopes stables du Carbone et de l'azote dans le Canal de Mozambique
Ce travail a pour objectif l'étude de la structure trophique des organismes mésopélagiques
dans le canal de Mozambique (océan Indien). Les organismes mésopélagiques sont des
proies préférentielles des grands poissons pélagiques comme les thons et les espèces
associées aux thons (le lancier, l'albacore, le patudo et l'espadon ; Potier et al. 2007). Les
organismes mésopélagiques se nourrissent directement sur le phytoplancton et le
zooplancton. Ils occupent les niveaux intermédiaires dans les chaînes alimentaires et
forment une « passerelle » entre les niveaux inférieurs et supérieurs. On dispose déjà de
connaissances sur les prédateurs de ces organismes, mais les organismes mésopélagiques
n'ont pas encore fait l'objet de beaucoup d'études.
Dans ce travail, nous avons utilisé les isotopes stables du Carbone et de l'Azote pour étudier
la position trophique relative de différentes espèces de poissons mésopélagiques. Les
différentes étapes pour obtenir la signature isotopique sont détaillées. Les premiers résultats
montrent une grande variabilité dans les signatures de l'Azote. Cette variabilité est mise en
relation avec l'habitat sur la verticale des différentes espèces et la position géographique
dans le Canal de Mozambique. Les valeurs sont comparées à celles obtenues sur leurs
prédateurs (thons, espadons et lanciers) et interprétées en fonction des régimes alimentaires
connus des différents prédateurs.



988) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_spp)
1/891: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingfishcommunitiesassociatedwithdriftingfishaggregatingdevicesfadsinthewesternindianoceanusingunderwatervisualsurveys> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Characterizing fish communities associated with drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean using underwater visual surveys
We adapted a visual census method, mainly used in demersal and reef fish studies, to characterize fish communities associated to drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean. Drifting FAD associated fishes from both equatorial (Seychelles) and tropical waters (Reunion Island) were examined by divers. A total of 32 species (belonging to 16 families) were observed associated with drifting FADs in equatorial waters, and 24 species (14 families) were found around FADs in tropical waters. Twenty species were found in both regions. The highest number of species observed at a single FAD was 18 (12 ± 2, mean ± SD) in equatorial and 13 (10 ± 3) in tropical waters, not counting circumnatant species loosely associated with the FAD. Some species like Kyphosus vaigiensis, Canthidermis maculata, Elagatis bipinnulata, Acanthocybium solandri and Coryphaena hippurus were observed on all or most of the surveys. In this study, the contribution in biomass of the 18 common species associated with drifting FADs (but excluding circumnatant species), represents more than 98% of the biomass. The overall biomass values of closely associated species remains well below tuna biomass estimates for circumnatant tuna schools at FADs, estimated as high as 200 tons. The species that most significantly contribute to the by-catch in tuna purse-seines logically match those that showing the highest biomass values in our surveys (Carcharhinus spp., Elagatis bipinnulata, Coryphaena hippurus, Canthidermis maculata, and Acanthocybium solandri). One of the most abundant and ubiquitous species in our study was the spotted oceanic triggerfish Canthidermis maculata that sometimes formed massive schools of many thousands individuals around the drifting FADs. Future research is needed to explore the role of such non tuna species in the attraction and aggregation processes of tuna around drifting FADs.



989) Recherche du mot : Taningia danae dans worms (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/taaningia_danae)


990) Recherche du mot : Ocean triggerfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/canthidermis_maculatus)


991) Recherche du mot : Benguela ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/benguela_ecosystem)
1/892: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/applicationofachlorophyllindexderivedfromsatellitedatatoinvestigatethevariabilityofphytoplanktoninthebenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Application of a chlorophyll index derived from satellite data to investigate the variability of phytoplankton in the Benguela ecosystem
The spatial and temporal variability in phytoplankton biomass in the Benguela ecosystem was investigated over an 8-year period using a chlorophyll index (Chi Index) derived from low resolution SeaWiFS ocean colour data. Monthly composite images revealed that the surface chlorophyll a concentration was high near the coast and generally decreased with distance offshore, allowing observation of the spatial extent of phytoplankton distribution in relation to coastal upwelling. The Chi Index was estimated as the integration of the chlorophyll a concentration from the coast to an offshore minimum level of 1mg m(-3). The index captured both the cross-shelf structure and the major part of the chlorophyllrich areas and was used to examine the average seasonality and annual variability in phytoplankton biomass. The data indicated that the Benguela ecosystem may be divided into two major sectors, north and south, with the divide occurring at the Luderitz upwelling cell where the Chi Index, the chlorophyll a concentration, and the offshore extent of phytoplankton were at a minimum. The index revealed a clearer and more contrasting seasonal pattern than simple coastal averaged values of chlorophyll. The latitudinal gradient and seasonal change in the index and wind forcing showed that the northern and southern sectors were out of phase and that the Benguela ecosystem appears to have a dipole structure. The interannual variation in biomass was highlighted and showed a high variability in the dipole, including shorter periods of synchronicity during 2001 and 2002. The simple Chi Index derived for the Benguela appears to be robust and generic enough to be applied to other upwelling systems as a reasonably good index of variability in phytoplankton biomass for comparative studies.

2/893: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatializedecosystemindicatorsinthesouthernbenguela> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Spatialized ecosystem indicators in the southern Benguela
Based on published distribution maps of 15 key fish species, foraging areas of three top predators during their breeding season, and fishing grounds of the main commercial fleets in the southern Benguela ecosystem, seven spatialized ecosystem indicators are derived: biodiversity, connectivity, mean ratio of fished area and area of distribution by species, exploited fraction of the ecosystem surface area, total catch per fished area by fishery, mean bottom depth of catches, and mean distance of catches from the coast. These indicators are compared and their suitability for an ecosystem approach to fisheries is discussed. The first two indicators characterize the ecosystem; the others are pressure indicators that are also compared with conventional (catch rate) indices of abundance.

3/894: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/indicatorsquantifyingsmallpelagicfishinteractionsapplicationusingatrophicmodelofthesouthernbenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 1.4183372
Doc : Indicators quantifying small pelagic fish interactions: application using a trophic model of the southern Benguela ecosystem
Three indicators quantifying interactions between species are developed for an upwelling system to provide useful measures for the comparison of marine ecosystem structure and function. Small pelagic fish are dominant in upwelling systems, and by definition, they are pivotal in a wasp-waist upwelling system. The indicator of interaction strength (IS) quantifies the effect that a change in biomass of one group has on abundance of other groups. The functional impact (FI) indicator quantifies the trophic impacts of species on their own and other functional groups or feeding guilds. The trophic replacement (TR) indicator quantifies the trophic similarity between a species that is removed from an ecosystem and other species in that ecosystem, i.e. it quantifies the ability of one group to trophically replace another. A trophic model of the southern Benguela ecosystem is used as an example for the application of the indicators. The strong similarities in trophic functioning of the southern Benguela ecosystem in the anchovy-dominated system of the 1980s, and the 1990s when there was a shift towards greater sardine abundance, are explained by the mutual trophic replacement abilities of anchovy and sardine. Differences between the proposed indicators and mixed trophic impact assessment are highlighted, mainly resulting from the static versus dynamic nature of the models upon which they are based. Trophic indicators such as those presented here, together with other kinds of ecosystem indicators, may assist in defining operational frameworks for ecosystem-based fisheries management.
© 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

4/895: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/twowaycouplingversusonewayforcingofplanktonandfishmodelstopredictecosystemchangesinthebenguela> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Two-way coupling versus one-way forcing of plankton and fish models to predict ecosystem changes in the Benguela
‘End-to-end' models have been adopted in an attempt to capture more of the processes that influence the ecology of marine ecosystems and to make system wide predictions of the effects of fishing and climate change. Here, we develop an end-to-end model by coupling existing models that describe the dynamics of low (ROMS–N2P2Z2D2) and high trophic levels (OSMOSE). ROMS–N2P2Z2D2 is a biogeochemical model representing phytoplankton and zooplankton seasonal dynamics forced by hydrodynamics in the Benguela upwelling ecosystem. OSMOSE is an individual-based model representing the dynamics of several species of fish, linked through opportunistic and size-based trophic interactions. The models are coupled through a two-way size-based predation process. Plankton provides prey for fish, and the effects of predation by fish on the plankton are described by a plankton mortality term that is variable in space and time. Using the end-to-end model, we compare the effects of two-way coupling versus one-way forcing of the fish model with the plankton biomass field. The fish-induced mortality on plankton is temporally variable, in part explained by seasonal changes in fish biomass. Inclusion of two-way feedback affects the seasonal dynamics of plankton groups and usually reduces the amplitude of variation in abundance (top-down effect). Forcing and coupling lead to different predicted food web structures owing to changes in the dominant food chain which is supported by plankton (bottom-up effect). Our comparisons of one-way forcing and two-way coupling show how feedbacks may affect abundance, food web structure and food web function and emphasise the need to critically examine the consequences of different model architectures when seeking to predict the effects of fishing and climate change.

5/896: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitytheoryforecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Viability theory for ecosystem approach to fisheries
Maintenance of overall ecosystem complexity is perceived as critical to the sustainability of ecosystem use. The development of an operational basis for an ecosystem approach to fisheries, however, faces many difficulties. On the research side, the challenge is in defining proper long-term, ecosystem-related objectives; determining meaningful reference values and indicators for desirable or undesirable states of the ecosystem; and developing appropriate data collection, analytical tools and models. The "viability" concept developed in economics by Jean-Pierre Aubin can be used to assist in the definition, selection of, and interaction among long-term objectives at an ecosystem level. It recognizes that ecosystems are complex assemblages of interacting and self-organizing natural and human components that cannot be predicted. Viability models define an ensemble of "viable states", in contrast to undesirable states defined as such by ecological, economic, and/or social constraints. These constraints can be derived from fisheries objectives, conservation principles, scientific results of modelling, or precautionary principles, and correspond to limit reference points to be avoided. Viability theory does not attempt to choose any "optimal solution" according to given criteria, but selects "viable evolutions". These evolutions are compatible with the constraints in the sense that they satisfy them at each time and can be delineated by the viability kernel. The southern Benguela marine ecosystem is presented as a first attempt for the application of this theory. In defining ecosystem-based objectives (and related issues such as target reference points), it seems more difficult to reach consensus among stakeholders on what is desirable than on what is undesirable (e.g. biological or economic collapse, species extinction, displacement of local rural communities). Expressed in the negative form or as limit reference points, ecosystem-based constraints can be considered simultaneously with current target reference points, such as maximum sustainable yield, using viability models. The viability approach can help to progressively integrate ecosystem considerations, such as conservation, into fisheries management.

6/897: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/simulatingandtestingthesensitivityofecosystembasedindicatorstofishinginthesouthernbenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Simulating and testing the sensitivity of ecosystem-based indicators to fishing in the southern Benguela ecosystem
The sensitivity of size-based, species-based, and trophodynamic indicators is examined for the fish community of the southern Benguela ecosystem (South Africa) through simulations of different fishing scenarios using the multispecies model OSMOSE. The simulations suggest that it may be erroneous to consider one absolute reference direction of change for any indicator because the direction of change is specific to both the multispecies assemblage and the fishing scenario considered. The analysis of species versus community indicators is helpful for understanding which processes drive the emergent properties of the ecosystem. Informative about the structure and state of the ecosystem, both types of indicators weighted by biomass or by abundance should be used to evaluate ecosystem changes. Indicators characterizing size distribution (e.g., slope of size spectrum) appear to be more helpful in distinguishing the cause of ecosystem changes than mean community indicators because their response is specific to the fishing scenario simulate 
(i.e., global or hake-targeting fishing). Some indicators do not seem to be sensitive to fishing pressure (slope of the diversity size spectrum) or do not vary consistently with other studies (W statistic).

7/898: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingandcomparingthespawninghabitatsofanchovyengraulisencrasicolusandsardinesardinopssagaxinthesouthernbenguelaupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Characterizing and comparing the spawning habitats of anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem
The spawning habitats of anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus and sardine Sardinops sagax in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem were characterised by comparing their egg abundances with environmental variables measured concomitantly during two different survey programmes: the South African Sardine and Anchovy Recruitment Programme (SARP), which comprised monthly surveys conducted during the austral summers of 1993/94 and 1994/95; and annual pelagic spawner biomass surveys conducted in early summer (November/December) from 1984 to 1999. Eggs were collected using a CalVET net. Physical variables measured included sea surface temperature (SST), surface salinity, water depth, mixed-layer depth, and current and wind speeds; biological variables measured included phytoplankton biomass, and zooplankton biomass and production. Spawning habitat was identified by construction of quotient curves derived from egg abundance data and individual environmental variables, and relationships between these variables were determined using multivariate co-inertia analysis. SARP data showed that anchovy spawning was associated with cool water and moderate wind and current speeds, whereas sardine spawning was related to warmer water and more turbulent and unstable conditions (i.e. high wind speeds and strong currents) than for anchovy. SARP data also showed significant differences in selection of spawning habitat of the two species for all environmental variables. The relationship between anchovy egg abundance and salinity was strongly positive, but strongly negative with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. Sardine egg abundance was strongly positively related to current speed. The spawner biomass survey data demonstrated that the spawning habitat of anchovy was characterised by warm water and high salinity, whereas sardine spawning was associated with cool water and low salinity. The survey data showed significant differences in spawning habitat selection by anchovy and sardine for SST, salinity and zooplankton biomass, but not for the other environmental variables. There was a positive relationship between anchovy egg abundance and SST, salinity and mixed-layer depth, and a negative relationship with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. For sardine there was a strong positive relationship between egg abundance and current speed and wind speed. Differences in the results between the two survey programmes could be attributable to differences in their spatio-temporal coverage. Spawning habitats of anchovy and sardine appear to be substantially different, with anchovy being more specific than sardine in their preference of various environmental conditions.

8/899: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/cultivationalleeeffectandresilienceoflargedemersalfishpopulations> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Cultivation, Allee effect and resilience of large demersal fish populations
In the marine environment, small forage species can predate on, or compete with, the pre-recruits of their larger predators. The “cultivation effect” hypothesis proposes that this mechanism can slow down the recovery of depleted populations of large demersal fishes by creating Allee effects that lower their recruitment success. Using an individual based fish community model applied to the southern Benguela ecosystem, we simulate situations of potential cultivation effect on a population of shallow water hake Merluccius capensis. We search for evidence of Allee effects due to cultivation and investigate how complex trophic interactions could influence their underlying mechanisms and impact. The resilience of the shallow water hake population was measured by following the variations of the ratio R/S (the number of recruits over the number of spawners) when population size decreases and the predators and competitors of shallow water hake pre-recruits were identified. Simulations suggest that cultivation effects are likely to emerge within the fish community of the southern Benguela ecosystem. Our twelve species model emphasizes that cultivation effects result from complex influences of predation and competition on the different pre-recruit stages, whose trophic role depends on both body size and geographical distribution. For realistic linkages between forage species and shallow water hake pre-recruits, cultivation effects occurring in the limits of the southern Benguela fish community are predicted to delay population recovery by several decades. These significant delays are not characterized by a decrease of R/S at low stock size, which is the sign usually tracked when looking for Allee effects. Our study suggests that cultivation effects could play a major role in the dynamics of overexploited large demersal fish populations and pleads for the development of improved detection techniques for these processes.

9/900: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingforecastingandscenariosincomparableupwellingecosystemscaliforniacanaryandhumboldt> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Modelling, forecasting and scenarios in comparable upwelling ecosystems: California, Canary and Humboldt
The three eastern boundary ecosystems comparable to the Benguela ecosystem (BCE)
display differences and commonalities. The California (CalCE) and Humboldt Current
(HCE) ecosystems are continuous topographically, whereas the Canary Current
ecosystem (CanCE) is interrupted by the Gulf of Cadiz and the Canaries archipelago.
All have similar regimes of equatorward flow over shelf and slope associated with
upwelling and a subsurface poleward flow over the slope, though in the HCE multiple
flows and counter-flows appear offshore. All systems exhibit year round upwelling in
their centre and seasonal upwelling at their extremes as the trade wind systems that
drive them migrate north and south, though the HCE is strongly skewed toward the
equator. All systems vary on scales from the event or synoptic scale of a few days,
through seasonal, to inter-decadal and long term. Productivity of each system follows
the upwelling cycle, though intra-regional variations in nutrient content and forcing
cause significant variability within regions. The CanCE is relatively unproductive
compared to the CalCE and HCE as a result of differences in large scale circulation
between the Pacific and Atlantic. The latter two systems are dominated by El Niño -
Southern Oscillation (ENSO) variability on a scale of 4-7 years. Physical modeling
with the Princeton Ocean Model and the Regional Oceanic Modeling System has
advanced recently to the stage of reproducing realistic mesoscale features and energy
levels with climatic wind forcing. Operational forecasting by these models with
assimilation of sea surface temperature and other data is successfully implemented in
CalCE. On longer time scales, the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory model is able
to hindcast El Niño variability over the long term up to 2 years in advance. Empirical
ecological models in all three systems have attempted prediction of permissible catch
level (fractional Maximum Sustainable Yield), recruitment, catches or onset of
migration with lack of continued success, partly because discontinuous or inadequate
observations hamper model implementation and assessment. Moreover, empirical
models tuned to particular environments fail when fundamental regime shifts occur.
One of the most successful approaches is that of intensive monitoring of catch and
188 P. Fréon
environmental parameters linked to an informal Operational Management Procedure
(OMP) to inform fisheries management off Peru. This OMP contributed to
preservation of anchovy stock during the 1997-8 El Niño but remains to be formalized
or tested under varying conditions. Prediction on time scales of global warming are
uncertain because physical climate models still disagree on whether upwelling will
intensify or weaken. Possible scenarios on decadal scale based on warming or cooling
of waters in the Eastern Boundary Current systems can be proffered, albeit with little
confidence at present. Future approaches for all systems, including the BCE, will in
the long run likely combine coupled atmospheric/ocean models with biological process
models. Judicious application of purely statistical modeling based on inherent time
series properties will assist, though such techniques are unable to cope with regime
shifts.

10/901: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howcansciencecontributetoanecosystemapproachtopelagicdemersalandrocklobsterfisheriesinsouthafrica> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : How can science contribute to an ecosystem approach to pelagic, demersal and rock lobster fisheries in South Africa?
South Africa is committed to moving towards an Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries (EAF) and has laid the foundations for this using a three-pronged approach: through a project (EAF Feasibility Study) under the Benguela Current Large Marine Ecosystem Programme; through a dedicated scientific working group established by the Marine and Coastal Management branch of South Africa's Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism; and through collaborative scientific and modelling studies within the joint French-South African ‘Upwelling Ecosystems' Programme. This contribution provides an overview of the progress made towards developing an EAF in South Africa, both on the scientific front in terms of improved understanding of the functioning of the Benguela ecosystem and the ways in which its ecosystem components interact, and regarding the practical ways being explored to enable scientific advice to feed in to South African fisheries management while taking into account broad stakeholder concerns. The paper focusses particularly on the role played by scientific contributions (research and monitoring) to address these ecosystem issues in three important South African fisheries — pelagic, demersal and rock lobster — so that the appropriate management measures can be put into place. Socio-economic concerns are included for the rock lobster fishery.

11/902: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/enrichmentconcentrationandretentionprocessesinrelationtoanchovyengraulisringenseggsandlarvaedistributionsinthenorthernhumboldtupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Enrichment, concentration and retention processes in relation to anchovy (Engraulis ringens) eggs and larvae distributions in the northern Humboldt upwelling ecosystem
A Lagrangian model is used to simulate and quantify in the northern Humboldt upwelling ecosystem the processes of enrichment, concentration and retention, identified by Bakun [Bakun, A., 1996. Patterns in the ocean. Ocean processes and marine population (sic). University of California Sea Grant, California, USA, in cooperation with Centro de Investigaciones Biologicas de Noroeste, (sic) California Sur, Mexico, 323 pp.] as being important for the survival and recruitment of early life stages of pelagic fish. The method relies on tracking the positions of particles within water velocity fields generated by a three-dimensional hydrodynamic model. Simple criteria for considering particles as participating to enrichment, concentration or retention are used to derive indices of the three processes. We analyse the spatial distribution of and seasonal variability in these indices. The results are discussed in relation to anchovy (Engraulis ringens) eggs and larvae distributions off Peru, and to a comparable study conducted in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem.

12/903: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/simulationandquantificationofenrichmentandretentionprocessesinthesouthernbenguelaupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Simulation and quantification of enrichment and retention processes in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem
Important environmental processes for the survival and recruitment of early life stages of pelagic fishes have been synthesized through Bakun's fundamental triad as enrichment, concentration and retention processes (A. Bakun, 1996, Patterns in the Ocean. Ocean Processes and Marine Population Dynamics. San Diego, CA, USA: University of California Sea Grant). This conceptual framework states that from favourable spawning habitats, eggs and larvae would be transported to and/or retained in places where food originating from enrichment areas would be concentrated. We propose a method for quantifying two of the triad processes, enrichment and retention, based on the Lagrangian tracking of particles transported within water velocity fields generated by a three-dimensional hydrodynamic model. We apply this method to the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem, constructing putative maps of enrichment and retention. We comment on these maps regarding main features of the circulation in the region, and investigate seasonal variability of the processes. We finally discuss the results in relation to available knowledge on the reproductive strategies of two pelagic clupeoid species abundant in the southern Benguela, anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax). Our approach is intended to be sufficiently generic so as to allow its application to other upwelling systems.

13/904: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/changesinfoodwebstructureunderscenariosofoverfishinginthesouthernbenguelacomparisonoftheecosimandosmosemodellingapproaches> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : Changes in food web structure under scenarios of overfishing in the southern Benguela: comparison of the Ecosim and OSMOSE modelling approaches
Ecosystem models provide a platform allowing exploration into the possible responses of marine food webs to fishing pressure and various potential management decisions. In this study we investigate the particular effects of overfishing on the structure and function of the southern Benguela food web, using two models with different underlying assumptions: the spatialized, size-based individual-based model, OSMOSE, and the trophic mass-balance model, Ecopath with Ecosim (EwE). Starting from the same reference state of the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem during the 1990s, we compare the response of the food web to scenarios of overfishing using these two modelling approaches. A scenario of increased fishing mortality is applied to two distinct functional groups: i) two species of Cape hake, representing important target predatory fish, and ii) the forage species anchovy, sardine and redeye. In these simulations, fishing mortality on the selected functional groups is doubled for 10 years, followed by 10 years at the initial fishing mortality. We compare the food web states before the increase of fishing mortality, after 10 years of overfishing and after a further 10 years during which fishing was returned to initial levels. In order to compare the simulated food web structures with the reference state, and between the two modelling approaches, we use a set of trophic indicators: the mean trophic level of the community and in catches, the trophic pyramid (biomass per discrete trophic level), and the predatory/forage fish biomass ratio. OSMOSE and EwE present globally similar results for the trophic functioning of the ecosystem under fishing pressure: the biomass of targeted species decreases whereas that of their potential competitors increases. The reaction of distant species is more diverse, depending on the feeding links between the compartments. The mean trophic level of the community does not vary enough to be used for assessing ecosystem impacts of fishing, and the mean trophic level in the catch displays a surprising increase due to the short period of overfishing. The trophic pyramids behave in an unexpected way compared to trophic control theory, because at least two food chains with different dynamics are intertwined within the food web. We emphasize the importance of biomass information at the species level for interpreting dynamics in aggregated indicators, and we highlight the importance of competitive groups when looking at ecosystem functioning under fishing disturbance. Finally, we discuss the results within the scope of differences between models, in terms of the way they are formulated, spatial dimensions, predation formulations and the representation of fish life cycles.

14/905: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemmodellingapproachesforsouthafricanfisheriesmanagement> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Ecosystem modelling approaches for South African fisheries management
A variety of ecosystem modeling approaches is available, some of which have
been successfully applied to the southern Benguela ecosystem. How these models could be
useful for fisheries management and how they might assist in reconciling fisheries with
conservation, has not always been clear. At the end of 2002, a workshop was held to introduce
the concept of an ecosystem approach to fisheries (EAF) management to South African scientists
and managers. It was recommended that an EAF be implemented as an incremental process
with immediate effect in South Africa. An ecosystem modeling perspective should be incorporated
into existing single species management recommendations by using ecosystem models to test
the implications of these recommendations. This paper describes the rich variety of ecosystem
models that are being applied to the southern Benguela. Focusing on the South African small
pelagic fisheries, it documents how these models are assisting the current implementation of an
EAF in the southern Benguela and suggests how future management and conservation issues
should be addressed in South African fisheries.

15/906: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemmodelingapproachesforsouthafricanfisheriesmanagement> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Ecosystem Modeling Approaches for South African Fisheries Management
A variety of ecosystem modeling approaches is available, some of which have been successfully applied to the southern Benguela ecosystem. How these models could be useful for fisheries management and how they might assist in reconciling fisheries with conservation, has not always been clear. At the end of 2002, a workshop was held to introduce the concept of an ecosystem approach to fisheries (EAF) management to South African scientists and managers. It was recommended that an EAF be implemented as an incremental process with immediate effect in South Africa. An ecosystem modeling perspective should be incorporated into existing single species management recommendations by using ecosystem models to test the implications of these recommendations. This paper describes the rich variety of ecosystem models that are being applied to the southern Benguela. Focusing on the South African small pelagic fisheries, it documents how these models are assisting the current implementation of an EAF in the southern Benguela and suggests how future management and conservation issues should be addressed in South African fisheries.

16/907: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatiotemporalvariabilityinfishinducedpredationmortalityonplanktonasimulationapproachusingacoupledtrophicmodelofthebenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Spatio-temporal variability in fish-induced predation mortality on plankton. A simulation approach using a coupled trophic model of the Benguela ecosystem
We investigate the potential predation pressure that would affect plankton communities spatially and seasonally using a coupled model, where fish-induced predation mortality is explicit. In the southern Benguela ecosystem, the fish model OSMOSE is forced by a biogeochemical model providing plankton prey fields. We analyse the resulting potential predation mortality rate on copepods. Spatially, this mortality rate is higher on the South coast (Agulhas bank) than on the West coast (upwelling zone), reflecting a lower plankton concentration compared to food requirement for fish. Temporally, fish-induced predation mortality decreases at the beginning of the upwelling season, due to a rapid increase of plankton concentration combined with a lag in the subsequent increase of fish biomass. Such strong spatio-temporal patterns in fish-induced predation mortality encourage the development of two-ways coupling between fish and plankton models for better representing the dynamics of the southern Benguela food web.

17/908: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitymodeloftrophicinteractionsinmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Viability model of trophic interactions in marine ecosystems
An attempt to use viability models for studying marine ecosystems is proposed as a possible alternative to classical ecosystem modeling. Viability models do not consider optimal solutions but instead define all possible evolutions of a dynamical system under given constraints. Applied to marine ecosystems, a viability model is formulated based on the trophic coefficients of a mass-balanced model. This requires relatively few assumptions about the processes involved and can integrate uncertainty associated with the required estimates of input parameters. An iterative algorithm is proposed to calculate the viability kernel, i.e., the envelope of all viable trajectories of the ecosystem. An application to the Benguela ecosystem is presented, considering interactions between detritus, phytoplankton, zooplankton, pelagicfis h, demersal fish and fisheries. Results show how a viability kernel could be used to better define the healthy states of a marine ecosystem, by defining what states should be avoided. The paper discusses how viability models of trophic interactions could help to define a new ecosystem-based indicator for fisheries management. It then discusses how this approach can potentially contribute to a paradigm shift that is emerging in the management of renewable resources.

18/909: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/simulationsoffishingeffectsonthesouthernbenguelafishcommunityusinganindividualbasedmodellearningfromacomparisonwithecosim> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Simulations of fishing effects on the southern benguela fish community using an individual-based model: learning from a comparison with ECOSIM
By applying an individual-based model (OSMOSE) to the southern Benguela ecosystem, a multispecies analysis is proposed, complementary to that provided by the application of ECOPATH/ECOSIM models. To reconstruct marine foodwebs, OSMOSE is based on the hypothesis that predation is a size-structured process. In all, 12 fish species, chosen for their importance in terms of biomass and catches, are explicitly modelled. Growth, reproduction and mortality parameters are required to model their dynamics and trophic interactions. Maps of mean spatial distribution of the species are compiled from published literature. Taking into account the spatial component is necessary because spatial co-occurrence determines potential interactions between predatory fish and prey fish of suitable size. To explore ecosystem effects of fishing, different fishing scenarios, previously examined using ECOSIM, are simulated using the OSMOSE model. They explore the effects of targeting fish species in the southern Benguela considered to be predators (Cape hake Merluccius capensis and M. paradoxus) or prey (anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus, sardine Sardinops sagax, round herring Etrumeus whiteheadi). Simulation results are compared and are generally consistent with those obtained using an ECOSIM model. This cross-validation appears to be a promising means of evaluating the robustness of model outputs, when separate validation of marine ecosystem models are still difficult to perform.

19/910: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitytheoryforanecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Viability theory for an ecosystem approach to fisheries
Maintenance of overall ecosystem complexity is perceived as critical to the sustainability of ecosystem use. The development of an operational basis for an ecosystem approach to fisheries, however, faces many difficulties. On the research side, the challenge is in defining proper long-term, ecosystem-related objectives; determining meaningful reference values and indicators for desirable or undesirable states of the ecosystem; and developing appropriate data collection, analytical tools and models. The ‘‘viability'' concept developed in economics by Jean-Pierre Aubin can be used to assist in the definition, selection of, and interaction among long-term objectives at an ecosystem level. It recognizes that ecosystems are complex assemblages of interacting and self-organizing natural and human components that cannot be predicted. Viability models define an ensemble of ‘‘viable states'', in contrast to undesirable states defined as such by ecological, economic, and/or social constraints. These constraints can be derived from fisheries objectives, conservation principles, scientific results of modelling, or precautionary principles, and correspond to limit reference points to be avoided. Viability theory does not attempt to choose any ‘‘optimal solution'' according to given criteria, but selects ‘‘viable evolutions''. These evolutions are compatible with the constraints in the sense that they satisfy them at each time and can be delineated by the viability kernel. The southern Benguela marine ecosystem is presented as a first attempt for the application of this theory. In defining ecosystem-based objectives (and related issues such as target reference points), it seems more difficult to reach consensus among stakeholders on what is desirable than on what is undesirable (e.g. biological or economic collapse, species extinction, displacement of local rural communities). Expressed in the negative form or as limit reference points, ecosystembased constraints can be considered simultaneously with current target reference points, such as maximum sustainable yield, using viability models. The viability approach can help to progressively integrate ecosystem considerations, such as conservation, into fisheries management. © 2004 International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.



992) Recherche du mot : Horse Mackerel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/trachurus_trachurus_capensis)
1/911: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/eggandlarvaedistributionofsevenfishspeciesinthenortheastwaters> : SCORE = 2.1275058
Doc : Egg and larvae distribution of seven fish species in the north-east waters
The distribution of egg and larvae of mackerel, horse mackerel, sardine, hake, megrim, blue whiting and anchovy along the European Atlantic waters (south Portugal to Scotland) during 1998 is described. Time of the year, sea surface temperature and bottom depth are used to define the spawning habitat of the different species. Mackerel, horse mackerel, and sardine eggs and larvae presented the widest distribution, whereas megrim and anchovy showed a limited distribution, restricted to the Celtic Sea and the Bay of Biscay respectively. Correspondingly mackerel, horse mackerel and sardine showed the highest aggregation indices. Blue whiting larvae were found at the lowest temperatures, whereas anchovy eggs and larvae were found in the warmest waters. The analysis is a basis for evaluation of ongoing changes in the pelagic ecosystem of the north-east Atlantic.

2/912: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/defigolfedegascogne> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Défi Golfe de Gascogne
The accumulation of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), DDTs (p,p'DDT [1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane], p,p'DDD [1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethane], p,p'-DDE [1,1-dichloro-2,2bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethene]), lindane (HCH) and hexachlorobenzene (HCB) was investigated in a marine food web from the Bay of Biscay. The food web consisted of phytoplankton, zooplankton, suprabenthic organisms (mysidacean and euphausiacean), four species of shrimps (Crangon allmanni; Solenocera membranacea; Processa sp. and Alpheus glaber), goby, horse mackerel blue whiting, pout, poor cod and hake (Merluccius merluccius). The results show that interspecies differences in organochlorine compositional patterns in the food web depend on several factors (allometric, biochemical and physiological) specific to both chemicals and organisms. The importance of dietary accumulation and metabolic capacity increases toward higher trophic level, while the organochlorine patterns are to a larger extent determinated by the lipophilicity and water solubility of the compounds at lower trophic levels (phytoplankton). Furthermore, stable nitrogen isotopes provided a continuous measure of trophic position allowing the quantification of the increases in the concentrations of PCB and SDDTs (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane) and the percentages of highly chlorinated PCB through the food web. The information provided may be important for future modelling of the fate of organochlorine contaminants in marine food webs.



993) Recherche du mot : Indo-Pacific blue marlin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_mazara)


994) Recherche du mot : Epinephelus tauvina (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/epinephelus_tauvina)


995) Recherche du mot : Black marlin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_indica)
1/913: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysisofdataobtainedfromobserverprogrammesconductedinandintheindianoceanonboardfrenchpurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Analysis of data obtained from observer programmes conducted in 2005 and 2006 in the indian ocean on board french purse seiners
This paper is a preliminary analysis of the data obtained under the National Database Plan (PNDB).
Between October 2005 and July 2006, three observers from the Development and Research Institute
(IRD) have been on board four French tuna purse seiners. They had to estimate by-catch and discard
and collect detailed information on the fishing activities and the use of FADs.
Areas prospected during these 134 days were NW Seychelles, SE Seychelles, E. Somalia and
Maldives-Chagos; 194 sets (116 positives and 86 negative) have been observed, with a majority
(84%) on free schools (162 sets, 51% positive) and quite few (16%) on associated schools (32 sets,
81% positives). During the day, the main activities of the boat were searching and fishing,
respectively 31% and 13% of total activity. Main reasons for null sets over free school as well as
FADs was that fish sinks or move too fast.
Discards were practically nulls and concerned mainly yellowfin tuna. About by-catch, it represents
less than 1% of total catch (in weight), mainly triggerfish, rainbow runner and wahoo. Selacians
(except shark whales) represented nearly 12% of the total by-catch (in weight) with mainly silky shark
over FADs and skate over free school. As regards billfishes, they represent 5% of total by-catch (in
weight) with mainly Indo-Pacific Sailfish over free school and black marlin over FADs.



996) Recherche du mot : Auxide (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_thazard)


997) Recherche du mot : Carite del Indo-Pacífico (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_guttatus)


998) Recherche du mot : levee (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/levee)


999) Recherche du mot : source de données Fishbase utilisée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/used_fishbase_webpage)


1000) Recherche du mot : data acquisition tool (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/data_acquisition_tool)


1001) Recherche du mot : Manchot royal (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/aptenodytes_patagonicus)


1002) Recherche du mot : Lutjanus sanguineus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lutjanus_sanguineus)


1003) Recherche du mot : purse seine (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seine)
1/914: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usinglocalecologicalknowledgelektoprovideinsightonthetunapurseseinefleetsoftheindianoceanusefulformanagement> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Using local ecological knowledge (LEK) to provide insight on the tuna purse seine fleets of the Indian Ocean useful for management
The purse seine fishery in the Western Indian Ocean is dominated by Spanish and French vessels that rely heavily on the use of drifting fish aggregation devices (DFADs) to capture tropical tuna species (skipjack, yellowfin and bigeye tuna). This study uses local ecological knowledge (LEK) obtained through standardized interviews of fishing masters to compare and characterize the body of local ecological knowledge, fishing technology and fishing strategies of both fleets, with the goal of obtaining useful information for the management of the fishery. A notable difference between fleets was the number of DFADs actively monitored per vessel at any given time, which was much higher for Spanish vessels (ca. 60 versus 20 DFADs). Spanish vessels also achieved higher vessel CPUE (catch per DFAD set) than their French counterparts. The use of supply vessels to manage, monitor and protect productive DFADs, and the latest satellite-based technology to track and remotely monitor DFAD aggregations is restricted to the Spanish fleet. The French do not use supply vessels and deploy less sophisticated tracking buoys. These technological disparities resulted in some fishing strategy differences between both fleets, but few differences were found in the knowledge of tuna behavior accumulated by the fishers.

2/915: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lessonsfromthepastinvestigatinghistoricaldatafrombluefintunafisheries> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Lessons from the past : investigating historical data from bluefin tuna fisheries
In 1963, the leading fisheries targeting Atlantic bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus) in the Norwegian Sea and North Sea suddenly collapsed without any warning. Little is known about this collapse and several hypotheses have been put forward, such as changes in migratory routes, recruitment failure or eradication of a sub-population: all of these hypotheses could result from natural causes and/or from overfishing. To help explain this mysterious event, an original data set of the main bluefin tuna fisheries of the 20th century, including total catch and size composition of the catch, has been compiled and analysed. The results reveal a strong and unambiguous link between the Nordic purse seine and Spanish trap fisheries during the 1950s and 1960s. However, this link vanished during the 1970s. In addition, the North-west Atlantic and Mediterranean trap fisheries appeared also to be partially connected to the Nordic fisheries. During the 1950s and 1960s, the main migration routes of bluefin tuna were probably from the Mediterranean spawning grounds and from the West Atlantic coasts to the Norwegian coast and North Sea, which were probably a key feeding ground at that time. The analyses also lead to the conclusion that interactions between environmental, trophic and fishing processes have probably affected bluefin tuna migration patterns which would have finally caused the Nordic fisheries collapse. This retrospective analysis finally leads to an original 2013 albeit more speculative 2013 hypothesis concerning Atlantic bluefin tuna population structure, therein conjectured as an assemblage of at least three sub-populations.

3/916: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multispeciesassessmentoftunascaughtinthetropicalatlanticpurseseinefisherysensitivityofproductionmodelstobiasesinreportedcatches> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Multi-species assessment of tunas caught in the Tropical Atlantic purse Seine fishery: sensitivity of production models to biases in reported catches
In this document, different scenarios of uncertainties in a multispecies fishery are presented. Uncertainties have been considered in the estimation of the species composition of the tropical tuna catch as well as in the total catch. Although three species (yellofin, skipjack and bigeye) are involved in the tropical tuna fishery, only uncertainties in the bigeye vs skipjack have been taken into account, in order to simplify the analysis. Regarding the total catch, bigeye has been considered as the species with higher uncertainty due to the IUU catch component. Analyses have been focused in evaluating the sensitivity of the current assessment methods to these uncertainties. Taking into account that the two sources of uncertainty affect the age structure of the catch as well as the total catch, surplus production methods have been applied in the assessment.

4/917: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingperformanceandinformationexchangebetweenfishingvesselswithartificialneuralnetworks> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Modeling performance and information exchange between fishing vessels with artificial neural networks
A fishery is simulated in which 20 artificial vessels learn to make decisions through an artificial neural network in order to search for schools of fish among the available fishing grounds. Three scenarios with different degrees of variability, including uncertainty in the searching process, are considered. The simulation model accounts for the main features commonly observed in a purse seine tuna fishery in a time and a space scale. Vessel strategies are chosen by the artificial neural network, on the basis of the following decision criteria: information concerning time searching in a specific area, previous performance in this area, knowledge of the quality of surrounding fishing grounds, presence of other vessels fishing actively and trip length. An analysis of the effects of sharing information between vessels is done and this was compared to individual artificial fishing vessels. In general, a group of fishing vessels show higher performance than individual vessels. A convex performance comparison curve for several group sizes is found in all scenarios considered. The optimum group size differs according to the variability of the artificial world. At bigger group sizes performance decreases, probably due to competition and depletion effects of some fishing grounds.

5/918: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewoffisherydatainrelationwiththeimplementationoftheseasonalmoratoriumonfadfisheriesintheatlantic> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : An overview of fishery data in relation with the implementation of the seasonal moratorium on FAD fisheries in the Atlantic
This paper presents a set of figures related to the tuna catches by species and by area taken by purse seiners in the Atlantic during recent
years. Most of these figures are based on the EU purse seiners as this
fleet has been the most important in the area and always providing good TASK 2 data to the ICCAT. Its main goal is to show the major changes in the purse seine fisheries during recent years, and especially in relation with the moratorium on FAD fishing, partial EU or total ICCAT, that has been + or – well implemented during the period novembre 1997-January 2005. These figures and maps are based on the basic ICCAT TASK2 data base, and they could easily be rehandled following potential new needs expressed by the ICCAT WGs

6/919: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/frenchpurseseinetunafisheriesstatisticsintheindianocean> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : French purse-seine tuna fisheries statistics in the Indian Ocean, 1981-2005
This document presents a summary of the main general French purse-seiners activities in
the Indian Ocean since 1981: effort, catch by species and fishing type (log and free
swimming schools), catch per unit of effort, sampling and mean weights for the main species.

7/920: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/frenchpurseseinetunafisheriesstatisticsintheindianocean> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : French purse-seine tuna fisheries statistics in the Indian Ocean, 1981-2005
This document presents a summary of the main general French purse-seiners activities in
the Indian Ocean since 1981: effort, catch by species and fishing type (log and free
swimming schools), catch per unit of effort, sampling and mean weights for the main species.

8/921: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evoluciondelascapturasdejuvenilesderabilypatudodesdelaextenciondelapescasobreobjectosbalizados> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Evolucion de las capturas de juveniles de rabil y patudo desde la extencion de la pesca sobre objectos balizados
This document analyses the distribution of the catch of small yellowfin obtained for the entire
purse seine tuna fishing fleet in the Atlantic Ocean from 1991 to 2003. Catches have been
analysed by year, month, area and fishing mode (free school or floating object), in order to
define areas, seasons and fishing mode associated with largest catches of small yellowfin and
the possible relationship with the moratoria established to reduce juvenile bigeye catches.

9/922: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialdistributionofcubicepspauciradiatusperciformesnomeidaeinthetropicalindianoceananditsimportanceinthedietoflargepelagicfishes> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Spatial distribution of Cubiceps pauciradiatus (Perciformes:Nomeidae) in the tropical Indian Ocean and its importance in the diet of large pelagic fishes
The bigeye cigarfish (Cubiceps pauciradiatus) is a small pelagic nomeid of the tropical world ocean, often recovered in the stomach contents of top predators such as tunas, billfishes and marine mammals. In the Indian Ocean, a few studies have investigated the biology and the ecology of this species that is one of the most abundant fish of the intermediate trophic levels. In this paper, we investigated the spatial distribution of C. pauciradiatus in the Indian Ocean using pelagic trawl catches carried out between 20°N and 45°S, and the importance of bigeye cigarfish in the diet of 9 piscivorous fishes sampled by different fishing gears in the western part of the Indian Ocean. The highest densities were observed along the eastern coast of Africa and in the Arabian Sea (87 000 individuals per square nautical mile) during the South-West Monsoon and in the eastern part of the Seychelles archipelago (62 200 ind. square nmi) during the North-East Monsoon. Small sized bigeye cigarfish (20–80 mm SL) was a regular and abundant prey (20 to 200 ind. per stomach) for schooling predators exploited by purse seine fishery such as large yellowfin and bigeye tunas chasing prey near the sea surface. Large sized bigeye cigarfish (61–150 mm SL) occurred in small numbers (3 to 20 ind. per stomach) in the stomach contents of swordfish and of large yellowfin and bigeye tunas caught by longline sets at great depths. Large concentrations of bigeye cigarfish occurred in zones of high productivity, and that species constituted seasonally a strong link in the transfer of energy from low to high trophic levels in this part of the Indian Ocean.

10/923: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/krigingofthelatentprobabilityofabinomialvariableapplicationtofishstatistics> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Kriging of the latent probability of a binomial variable: application to fish statistics
The tropical tuna purse seine fishery is characterised by two fishing modes: one on free swimming tuna schools and one on schools associated with Fish Aggregating Devices (FAD). Our purpose is thus to understand how the two fishing modes are spatially distributed in the Indian Ocean and how this distribution has changed over the seasons and the years. Conditional on the latent probability that a set could be realized on a FAD, the number of sets on FAD was considered as independent Binomial random variables. Such a hierarchical model allows reducing the instabilities encountered when working on empirical ratios based on few observations. We discussed the connections with “kriging with measurement errors” and, the determination of the mean and the variance of the latent variable. The use of 22 years of fishing statistics (1985 – 2006) indicated a small year to year variability between variograms of the latent variable. A single model was thus used to krige the probability for fishing sets to be on log school. The time series of the kriging maps highlighted areas of systematic large probability of the second fishing mode which was consistent with expert knowledge but question the stationarity assumption made on the latent variable.

11/924: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabiladultothunnusalbacaresdelaflotadecercotropicaleuropeaeneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Actualizacion de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil adulto (thunnus albacares) de la flota de cerco tropical europea en el oceano atlantico de 1980 a 2006
This document presents a standardized index update of adult yellowfin (>30 kg) of tropical purse seine fleets in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006. The data used were taken from spear fishing logbooks and detailed information of the fleet. The standardization has been carried out by generalized linear models (GLM) using the delta model. The standardized indices are obtained from the GLM model estimations: one is calculated from the least squares means (LSMeans) and another from the annual averages of the adjusted values. The variability of the latter is lower. Therefore, in this case, it is a more adequate index to be used in assessment models. The year, country, category, age of vessel and catches of skipjack tuna, which is the other target species of these fleets, were considered as explanatory variables.

12/925: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwppt> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : IOTC 2008-WPPT-26
Standardized yellowfin and skipjack catch rates of the European purse seine fleets in the Indian ocean from 1984 to 2007 using generalized linear models are presented. Different indexes based on logbooks data for the yellowfin free school catch and yellowfin and skipjack FAD catch have been standardized considering time-space strata, vessel category, as well as environmental effects as explicative variables.
1

13/926: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimatesofhistoricchangesintotalmortalityandselectivityforeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamisfromlengthcompositiondata> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Estimates of historic changes in total mortality and selectivity for  Eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) from length composition data
Catch-at-size data of the eastern Atlantic skipjack were used to estimate changes in total mortality from 1969 to 2007. We used a transitional model of mean length that generalized the Beverton-Holt mortality estimator to allow change in mortality rate under nonequilibrium conditions. Then, from homogeneous periods of time, length-converted catch curves were used to access qualitative changes in selectivity patterns for two surface fisheries (the baitboat fishery operating from Dakar, Senegal, and the European and associated purse seine fisheries). To explore the impact of catch on the mortality rate, a Bayesian change-point analysis was conducted on the catch time series to detect concomitant variation between mortality rates and catch. Finally, potential causes of these changes are discussed in relation to the implementation of new fishing technology, such fish aggregating devices (FAD). The general pattern depicted by total mortality is in agreement with previous knowledge on this fishery: a state of complete or practically complete exploitation during the nineties followed by the decrease in nominal purse seine fishing effort in the last decade, combined with the effect of a seasonal moratorium on FAD fishing operations. There was no evidence of a change in selectivity between the two contrasted periods of time considered: 1969-1979 and 1986-1999; the second period being characterized by the introduction of new technology onboard vessels. In contrast, the covariation over time between total catch and mortality rate three years later highlights the effect of the fishing pressure on the stock of eastern Atlantic skipjack.

14/927: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climaticoscillationsandtunacatchratesintheindianoceanawaveletapproachtotimeseriesanalysis> : SCORE = 1.4183372
Doc : Climatic oscillations and tuna catch rates in the Indian Ocean: a wavelet approach to time series analysis
We analysed the influence of climatic oscillations
[based on the Indian Oscillation Index (IOI)] on
monthly catch rates of two tropical tuna species in
the equatorial Indian Ocean. We carried out wavelet
analysis, an efficient method of time series analysis
to study non-stationary data. Catch per unit of effort
(CPUE) of bigeye tuna was computed from Japanese
longline statistics from 1955 to 2002 in the equatorial
Indian Ocean and CPUE of yellowfin tuna
was derived from industrial purse seine statistics
from 1984 to 2003 in the Western Indian Ocean.
Wavelet analyses allowed us to quantify both the
pattern of variability in the time series and nonstationary
associations between tuna and climatic
signals. Phase analyses were carried out to investigate
dependency between the two signals. We
reported strong associations between tuna and
climate series for the 4- and 5-yr periodic modes, i.e.
the periodic band of the El Nin˜o Southern Oscillation
signal propagation in the Indian Ocean.
These associations were non-stationary, evidenced
from 1970 to 1990 for bigeye, and from 1984 to
1991 and then from 1993 to 2001 for yellowfin.
Warm episodes (low negative IOI values) matched
increases of longline catch rates of bigeye during the
1970–1990 time frame, whereas the strong 1997–
1998 warm event matched a decrease of purse seine
catch rates of yellowfin. We discussed these results
in terms of changes in catchability for purse seine
and longline.

15/928: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/driftingfishaggregationdevicescouldactasanecologicaltrapfortropicaltunaspecies> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Drifting fish aggregation devices could act as an ecological trap for tropical tuna species
Purse seine fishing on fish aggregating devices (FADs) has expanded considerably during
the last 15 yr in tropical tuna purse seine fisheries, and FADs currently account for about 70% of
their reported tuna catches. The scientific community has expressed concern over the consequences
of this fishing practice in terms of yield per recruit and suspected detrimental effects on FADassociated
tunas. To explore possible detrimental effects, we compared stomach fullness, fish plumpness,
growth rate, and migration behaviour between free school and drifting FAD-associated tunas
for skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis and yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares caught in the Atlantic
and Indian Oceans. Significant differences in fish plumpness and individual growth rates were found,
suggesting that individuals associated with drifting FADs were less healthy than those in free schools.
Since stomach fullness indicated that tunas associated with FADs eat less than those in free schools,
the difference in growth rate and condition could be the consequence of altered feeding patterns. For
each species, significant changes in migratory direction and displacement rates were observed in the
presence of drifting FADs. These findings support the hypothesis that FADs act as a super-stimulus,
misleading tunas to make inappropriate habitat selection. However, further studies are required to
investigate the long-term effect of FADs on the entire life cycle of tunas.

16/929: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statitiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileependantlaperiode> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Statitiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée pendant la période 1991-2006
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of the European and similar baitboat and
purse seine fleets7 from 1991 to 2006. The data in this document for 1991 to 2006 have been revised and
completed for 2005-2006. The species breakdown of the catches in 2006 is provisional and should be
subject to verification. The document gives information on the characteristics of the fleets (fishing type
by category, in number), fishing effort by type and size category of the vessels, the number of 1o areas
visited by the fleet per year during the period, the catches, standardized effort and the CPUEs by
species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as well as the catches by size classes per quarter for
each of the three species and for the two gears, and the average individual weights by species (by
quarter and by gear). Fishing maps are also provided indicating the deployment of the fleet in the
eastern Atlantic as well as the time-area breakdown of the catches of the European and similar purse
seiners in 2006, compared to the average of 2001-2005.

17/930: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/wherehavethetagsgonesimulationoftagssintagasimplemodeltoestimatethenumberandsizeoftunastaggedbytherttpiothatarecurrentlystillalive> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Where have the tags gone? SImulatioN of TAGs (SINTAG): A simple model to estimate the number and size of tunas tagged by the RTTP-IO that are currently still alive.
The large scale Regional Tuna Tagging Programme in the Indian Ocean (RTTP-IO) has reported a 14% return rate of the 168.000 tuna tagged between 2005 and 2007. Approximately 96% of these returns have been reported from the purse seine fishery. This has lead to speculation that the tagged tuna have not yet reached sizes at which they could be caught by longliners (bigeye and yellowfin) or by the baitboat fishery (skipjack) A simple exponential decay and growth model has, however, indicated that this may not be the case, and tagged individuals should be available to these fisheries. It would thus appear that tagged tuna are not being reported by the longline and baitboat fisheries and an effort should be made to increase the level of tag reporting in those fleets in order to maximise the usefulness of the data obtained from the RTTP-IO.

18/931: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fishbehaviourfromfishersknowledgethecasestudyoftropicaltunaarounddriftingfishaggregatingdevicesdfads> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Fish behaviour from fishers' knowledge: the case study of tropical tuna around drifting fish aggregating devices (DFADs)
Purse-seining for tropical tuna is one of the most technologically advanced fisheries in the world. The purpose of this study was to apply local ecological knowledge (LEK) to assist in the planning of future in situ studies of fish behaviour around drifting fish aggregating devices (DFADs) by prioritizing research topics, thereby reducing the number of potential hypotheses to explore. Interviews of fishing masters of the purse-seine fleets working in the western Indian Ocean provided an alternate, independent, and previously unexplored source of behavioural information, specifically on the attraction, retention, and departure behaviours of tuna schools in relation to DFADs. Most fishing masters agreed that the maximum attraction distance of a DFAD is approximately 10 km and generally agreed to the following statements. Tuna form distinct schools under FADs, commonly segregated by species and size. The main reasons for the departure of tuna aggregations from FADs are changes in currents or FAD movements and location in relation to physical or oceanographic features. The number of actively monitored DFADs at sea in the western Indian Ocean was estimated at approximately 2100. Incorporating fishers into the planning and design stages of future research projects will facilitate collaborative and integrated approaches.

19/932: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/levytrajectoriesofperuvianpurseseinersasanindicatorofthespatialdistributionofanchovyengraulisringens> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Levy trajectories of Peruvian purse-seiners as an indicator of the spatial distribution of anchovy (Engraulis ringens)
Analogous to other top predators foraging on patchy resources, the spatial behaviour of fishers provides information on the spatial organization of fish. Focusing on the Peruvian anchovy purse-seine fishery, vessel monitoring system data are used to describe fishing vessels' trajectories, and acoustic survey data to characterize anchovy spatial distribution. Vessel trajectories were analysed in terms of move-length distribution, whereas fish distribution was characterized by spatial extent, concentration, and fractal dimension. Fishers perform Levy flights that can be characterized by a single statistic (mu); mu is significantly correlated with the fractal dimension of fish distribution. It is argued that the Levy statistic is a good candidate for an ecosystem indicator that might contribute to realtime monitoring of ecosystems.

20/933: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparedresponsesofpurseseineandlonglinetunafisheriestoclimaticanomaliesintheindianocean> : SCORE = 3.2755096
Doc : Compared responses of purse seine and longline tuna fisheries to climatic anomalies in the Indian Ocean, 1980-2005


21/934: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 1.6021824
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

22/935: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/outlookofoceanclimatevariabilityinthewesttropicalindianocean> : SCORE = 1.7371012
Doc : Outlook of ocean climate variability in the West tropical Indian Ocean, 1997‐2008
The trend of the major environmental parameters during the decade 1997‐200 is presented. The decade analysed is characterized by two large anomalous events related to the Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) events that dramatically reduced the catch rates of the purse seine fleets in the West Indian Ocean (WIO). During the IOD events, the WIO shows above normal sea surface temperature, deeper than normal thermocline and depleted chlorophyll concentration, denoting unfavourable foraging conditions in the surface layer. The most recent IOD event (2006‐2007) did not reach the magnitude of that of 1997‐98 but purse seine catches declined sharply from the previous years. Such a decline is undoubtedly related to anomalous environmental conditions affecting catchability, but the hypothesis of a reduced biomass after some years of very high catches may be an additional reason to this decline.

23/936: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleexploitationofamajortunaconcentrationintheindianocean> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Mesoscale exploitation of a major tuna concentration in the Indian Ocean
The paper analyzes the daily catch, fishing effort and fish size data of the purse seine fleet fishing in the
western Indian Ocean in February 2005, when a major concentration of tuna occurred and was heavily exploited by
this surface fishery. This tuna concentration event occurred over a period of just 12 days, in an area of about 3500
square nautical miles located to the west of the Seychelles. This small stratum produced a total catch of 22 000 t,
corresponding to 6.5% of the total fishing mortality of all adult yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) in the entire Indian
Ocean in 2005. Sets were made mainly on free schools and the catch mainly composed of large yellowfin tuna. The
average CPUE and the average catch per set were very large, 65 t and 85 t per fishing day, respectively. This “event” took
place in a precise area where a high concentration of chlorophyll had been localized 18 days before. The subsequent
concentration of tuna schools probably arose due to the high densities of their prey feeding on this large phytoplankton
biomass. This phytoplankton bloom was observed at the edge of an anticyclonic eddy, but its origin and its high density
cannot be fully explained by available environmental data. The adult yellowfin were probably at a reproductive stage
and actively feeding on the local food chain generated by the phytoplankton bloom. Such an event is extreme, but
typical of tuna purse seine fisheries where fleets often search for such tuna patches. These events play an important role
in tuna fisheries due to the increase in fishing effort and fishing efficiency of purses seiners, both of which increase their
impact on the resource. The fine scale study of such events and their improved integration into tuna stock assessments
is recommended.

24/937: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethonierefrancaisedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière française durant la période 1991- 2006
This document presents a statistical summary of the fleet activity of the French baitboats and purse
seiners from 1991 to 2006. The historical data for the FIS6 fleet from 1969 to 1990 was described in a
previous document (Diouf et Fonteneau 1997). The data from that document have been revised and
completed for 2006. The document gives information on the fleet characteristics (fishing type by
category, in number), fishing effort by type and size category of the vessels, the number of 1o areas
visited by the fleet per year during the period, the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for
the baitboats and purse seiners, as well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three
species and for the two gears, and the average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear).
The species breakdown of the catches in 2006 is provisional and should be subject to verification. Some
fishing maps area also presented indicating the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic, as well as the
time-area breakdown of the French baitboat and purse seine catches in 2006, as compared to the
average of 2001-2005.

25/938: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwpeb> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : IOTC WPEB - 2008/016
Data collected through 20 observer fishing trips were used to quantify
the number of silky sharks taken as bycatch by the French tuna
purse seine fishery of the Western Indian Ocean. 1,385 immature
silky sharks of which 85% was discarded at sea and 15% retained
aboard, were observed as bycatch during 685 fishing sets observed
from October 2005 to April 2008. Zero-inflated regression models
fitted with Bayesian methods were used to explain silky shark
bycatch as a function of fishing mode (free vs. fishing aggregating
device-associated (FAD) schools), area, and season. Model results
showed that silky sharks occurred in 24% of the fishing sets with an
expected number of sharks per set estimated to be 2.02 ± 0.05. The
3 covariates were found to significantly explain both the presence
and number of silky sharks caught by the French purse seiners. FAD
was shown to have a strong positive effect on the number of silky
sharks caught, an expected value of 4.3 sharks being taken in FADassociated
schools versus 0.3 shark in free schools. There were
significant differences in silky shark bycatch between seasons and
areas with higher bycatch than average in July-September and in the
South-East Seychelles area while fewer sharks were expected to be
caught in the North Somali area. Results are discussed within the
context of the ecosystem approach to fisheries for the analysis of
ecosystem effects of fishing.

26/939: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/catchandeffortdataonsoviettunapurseseinefisheriesintheindianoceanbasedondailyradioreportsdatabase> : SCORE = 2.026618
Doc : Catch and effort data on Soviet tuna purse seine fisheries in the Indian Ocean based on daily radio reports database.
General description of YugNIRO database on Soviet tuna purse seine fisheries in the Indian Ocean is presented. Principal sources of the information for database were daily radio reports on operations and on catch composition of purse seiners. Vessel types, temporal schedule of its activities, total catch and data quality, database structure is described. This paper is a supplement for a fine-scale (1-degree/month) catch statistics and activities dataset, presented to IOTC Secretariat.

27/940: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteuponthehistoricalstandardisedfishingeffortsinthefisandfrenchpurseseinetaskstatisticsthathavebeenroutinelysubmittedtotheiccatsecretariatduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Note upon the historical standardised fishing efforts in the FIS and French purse seine task2 statistics that have been routinely submitted to the ICCAT secretariat during the 1969-2005 period
This paper examine the types of fishing efforts that have been submitted since 1969 to the
ICCAT Secretariat for the French fleet of purse seiners, as well for the Senegalese, Ivorian and
Moroccan purse seiners. This analyzes confirms that the effort data submitted to the ICCAT
during the period 1969 to now are heterogeneous over time. This document explains why the
fishing efforts of the 1969-1979 period cannot be modified or corrected or re-estimated. It also
recommends that all fishing efforts since 1980 should be well normalized and resubmitted to the
ICCAT, and using various units of fishing effort. Various potential types of fishing efforts that
could be used for this revision of the historical Task 2 statistics are presented and submitted to
the ICCAT Tropical Tunas Species Group before doing this revision. The historical
stratification between small and large purse seiners should be kept. The document also
analyzes the statistical problems linked to the mixture of four flags in the historical so called
FISM fleet. The recommendation is that all task1 and task2 purse seine statistics at least since
1980 and possibly since 1969 should preferably be broken into the corresponding catch and
effort statistics of each flag.

28/941: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/commontrendsmodelincatchperunitofeffortforthetropicaltunas> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Common trends model in catch per unit of effort for the tropical tunas
We explored the usefulness of Dynamic factor analysis (DFA) to detect common patterns in the sets of CPUEs for Atlantic yellowfin (Thunnus albacores) and for eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), respectively. For yellowfin, the most appropriate model, in terms of AIC, identified two common trends. The 10 yellowfin CPUE series could be divided into 3 groups based on factor loadings. The grouping corresponds in part to the geographic location of the fisheries (i.e., the western Atlantic area for group 1 and the northeastern tropical Atlantic region for group 2). The fact that the first group is constituted by CPUEs obtained from 3 different fishing gears (pole and line, purse seine and longline), operating at different depth levels, suggests that the regional trend reflects more a sub-population response to a local exploitation rate than to environmental conditions. In light of the present results, the CPUEs should be combined respectively into two regional indices before performing a unique combined index. For skipjack, results are less conclusive and further studies with explanatory factors are required to account for the fact that this species is seldom targeted by the tuna fisheries.

29/942: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bycatchanddiscardsoftheeuropeanpurseseinetunafisheryintheindianoceanestimationandcharacteristicsfortheperiod> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : By-catch and discards of the European purse seine tuna fishery in the Indian Ocean. Estimation and characteristics for the 2003-2007 period
By-catch and tuna discards estimation and characteristics for the various species groups are presented for the European purse seine tuna fishery (France and Spain) for the period 2003-2007. Data were collected through French and Spanish observer programs representing a total of 1,958 observed fishing sets. Total by-catch and tuna discards estimation were derived from a stratification based on fishing mode, seasons (quarters) and spatial area. The estimation relied on raising factors based on major commercial tuna catch expressed in tons per 1000 t of tuna landed. Total tuna discards and by-catch was estimated to be about 9,585 t corresponding to 35.5 t per 1000 t of tuna landed. Tuna discards represents 54 % (19.2 t/1000 t) of the total amount, followed by fishes (33.7 %, 12.0 t/1000 t), sharks (10.1, 3.6 t/1000 t), billfishes (1.5 %, 0.5 t/1000 t), and rays (0.7 %, 0.2 t/1000 t). By-catch species composition, main species length and sex structure, and percentage of utilization are also presented. Total by-catch estimates and ratios are compared with those previously published in the literature. The issue raised by the choice of a consistent extrapolation method is finally discussed

30/943: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

31/944: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

32/945: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofyellowfinthunnusalbacarestunastocksfisheriesandstockstatusworldwide> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : An overview of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) tuna stocks, fisheries and stock status worldwide
This paper makes a comparison of yellowfin
stocks worldwide, taking into account the biology of the
species as estimated in each ocean and the changes and
trends in the yellowfin fisheries observed in each ocean. This
paper presents and discusses a wide range of data and
figures comparing yellowfin stocks and fisheries in the four
« oceans », namely the Atlantic, Indian, Eastern and Western
Pacific. It shows an overview of the changes observed in each
ocean for the main yellowfin fisheries, longliners and purse
seiners: sizes of area fished, CPUE, changes in size
distribution and average weights, etc. The major biological
parameters estimated in each ocean by scientists, such as
natural mortality at age, spawning, sex ratio and growth are
presented and discussed. The methods used to assess
yellowfin stocks and the methodological uncertainties in the
yellowfin stock assessment are compared and discussed. The
conclusion is that it remains difficult to fully understand if the
increased catches of yellowfin observed world wide in most
oceans should be explained (1) by the effects of increasing
fishing zones, (2) by increased fishing effort and/or increased
fishing efficiency (3) and/or by increased biological productivity
of oceans or by a combination of these parameters. The
serious uncertainty in the understanding of the real
relationship between the longline and purse seine fisheries are
also discussed.

33/946: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/standardizedcpueforjuvenileyellowfinskipjackandbigeyetunafromtheeuropeanpurseseinefleetintheatlanticoceanfromto> : SCORE = 1.7371012
Doc : Standardized CPUE for juvenile yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tunafrom the european purse seine fleet in the atlantic ocean from 1991 to 2006
In this document three abundance indices are obtained for the juveniles of tropical tunas (yellowfin (≤30Kg.), skipjack and bigeye of European purse seine fishery in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006 using generalized linear models (delta-lognormal model). Catch and effort data come from detailed daily logbooks. Catch rates are modelled using the delta lognormal model. The method estimates a combined CPUE of the three species from aggregated catches, and the proportion of catches for each species, so the final individual abundance indices are calculated multiplying both estimators for each species. Explanatory variables used in the analysis are: year, zone, quarter, harvest capacity, country, and starting date of the vessel. Year and zone are the most explanatory factors of variability in CPUEs and vessel characteristics have a minor explanatory effect in observed catch rates.

34/947: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thegambiariverestuaryareferencepointforestuarinefishassemblagesstudiesinwestafrica> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : The Gambia River Estuary: a reference point for estuarine fish assemblages studies in West Africa
The Gambia River is one of the last aquatic ecosystems in West Africa that has not yet been affected by strong environmental changes and human disturbances. In contrast to the neighbouring Casamance and Sine Saloum estuaries, the Gambia estuary is free of major climatic perturbation and remains a “normal” estuary, with a salinity range from freshwater to 39. The present paper aims to study the spatial and seasonal variability of fish assemblages in this estuary in terms of bio-ecological categories and of their relation with some environmental variables. Four surveys were conducted, from June 2001 to April 2002, in order to cover the major hydroclimatic events, at 44 sampling sites along the lower, intermediate and upper zones of the Gambia estuary (up to 220 km). Fish assemblages were sampled using a purse seine net, fish were identified to species level and environmental variables such as water depth, transparency, salinity, temperature and percentage oxygen saturation were measured. The main spatial structure of the fish assemblages and its seasonal changes were first studied using the STATIS-CoA multitable method. The combination of fish assemblages and environmental variables was then analysed using the STATICO method, designed for the simultaneous analysis of paired ecological tables. A total of 67 species were observed, belonging to all bio-ecological categories characterizing West African estuaries. The marine component of the community was largely dominant throughout the estuary, while the freshwater component was permanently observed only in the upstream zone. The main spatial structure was a longitudinal gradient contrasting marine and freshwater affinity assemblages, with strong seasonal variations. The most complete gradient was observed in December, at the beginning of the dry and cool season, while in June, at the end of the dry and warm season, there was the least structured gradient. The role of salinity, always correlated with temperature, was emphasized, while turbidity appeared to be another important factor. Oxygen and depth did not play a major role at the estuary scale. The relative importance of the bio-ecological categories varied according to the season and the distance to sea. Stable fish assemblages were observed in the lower zone at the end of the dry season, in the upper zone during the flood and in the middle zone throughout the year. In some situations, a relative inadequacy between fish assemblages and their environment was noticed. The present study contributes to the definition of the functioning of a “normal” West African estuary, the Gambia estuary, with balanced effects of marine and freshwater influences and the presence of all bio-ecological categories. The Gambia estuary can therefore be considered to be a reference ecosystem for further comparisons with other tropical estuarine ecosystems, subjected to natural or artificial perturbations.

35/948: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thefrenchtropicalpurseseinefisheriesobserverprogram> : SCORE = 4.9132643
Doc : The French tropical purse seine fisheries observer program


36/949: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.

37/950: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialversustemporalpatternsinfishassemblagesofatropicalestuarinecoastallaketheebrielagoonivorycoast> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Spatial versus temporal patterns in fish assemblages of a tropical estuarine coastal lake: The Ebrié Lagoon (Ivory Coast)
The fish assemblages of the Ebrié lagoon (Ivory Coast) were sampled by experimental fishing over the entire lagoon using a purse seine net. The sampling was conducted in the two main hydroclimatic seasons for this ecosystem, i.e. in the dry season (March-April) and in the wet season (August-September). The results obtained showed a fish assemblage organized around a consistently occurring group of twenty species. When analysed in terms of ecological categories, the seasonal influence led to a cycle in the assemblages from freshwater to marine around this permanent species pool, with a seasonal renewal of the assemblage. At the scale of the lagoon, there were variations in the composition of the assemblages that clearly distinguished the western part from the eastern one. The limit was situated at the Vridi canal, a wide artificial channel permanently connecting the lagoon to the sea. To the west, the assemblage was characterised by a strong spatial uniformity and low seasonal variability. To the east, the assemblage formed two different entities; one assemblage with pronounced freshwater affinities occurring in a side arm and the other assemblage with great seasonal variability under the alternating influence of seawater in the dry season and freshwater in the wet season. This part of the lagoon functioned somewhat like a typical estuary.

38/951: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethonierefisdurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière FIS durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary of FIS6 baitboat and purse seine fleet activities
from 1991 to 2004. The historical data from 1969 to 1990 were described in a previous
document (Diouf and Fonteneau 1997). The data collected from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2004. The document provides indications regarding fleet
characteristics (type of gear by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category of
the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for baitboats and purse seiners, as well as
the catches by different size classes by quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, and the average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic, as well as the time-area
breakdown of French purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average situation of 1999-
2004.

39/952: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fadiofishaggregatingdevicesasintrumentedobservatoriesofpelagicecosystemsaeuropeanunionfundedprojectondevelopmentofnewobservationalinstrumentsandthebehavioroffisharoundfads> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : FADIO (Fish Aggregating Devices as Intrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) : a European Union funded project on development of new observational instruments and the behavior of fish around FADs
Associative behavior is a major component of the life of pelagic fish. Tropical tuna and other
species are often found in association with floating objects, with other animals, and with topographic
features such as seamounts. Because fish are more abundant, occur in larger schools, or are easier to catch
when aggregated, fishermen extensively use these associations to increase their catches. More than 50%
of the world tuna catches are made from schools associated with floating objects.
There is a clear need for new technologies to study these associations and to propose innovative
methods of management. The European Union has funded a project to study the requirements of future
assessment tools and to develop prototypes. The project: FADIO1 (Fish Aggregating Devices as
Instrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) has conducted five extensive field surveys of the
Western Indian Ocean in conjunction with the large-scale purse seine fishery operating on drifting FADs
that operates in this region.
The objectives of FADIO are to develop new observation and assessment tools and collect data
on the behavior of pelagic fish around drifting FADs. Two categories of instruments are being developed
in collaboration with manufacturers: (1) autonomous buoys equipped with 360º sonar and cameras to
observe aggregations, acoustic receivers to detect individuals carrying electronic tags and satellite uplinks
for both, (2) new electronic tags with ecological sensors. Various field experiments are conducted to
assist in the development of these prototypes. During these scientific cruises, different instruments and
methods are used to document the behavior of associated species concurrently resident on the same FAD,
including: fishing and acoustic tagging, passive and active acoustic surveys, and underwater visual
census. Those observations, combined together, provide valuable insights in the dynamics of FAD
aggregations.
These instruments can be used in the future (i) to build the foundation for future observatories of
pelagic ecosystems, using FADs as scientific platforms for observation and data collection, (ii) to
understand the effects of FADs on tuna and other associated species, even in remote areas, (iii) to help
reducing by-catch around FADs. FADIO began in 2003 and will end in Oct. 2006, with an exposition and
workshop at the Oceanographic Museum in Monaco.

40/953: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 1.7371012
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of European and assimilated6
baitboat and purse seine fleets from 1991 to 2004. The data from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2003. The document provides information regarding fleet
characteristics (type of fishing by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category
of the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as
well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, as well as average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic as well as the time-area
breakdown of European and assimilated purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average
situation of 1999-2003.

41/954: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 1.7371012
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of European and assimilated6
baitboat and purse seine fleets from 1991 to 2004. The data from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2003. The document provides information regarding fleet
characteristics (type of fishing by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category
of the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as
well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, as well as average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic as well as the time-area
breakdown of European and assimilated purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average
situation of 1999-2003.

42/955: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/speciescompositionoftunacatchestakenbypurseseiners> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Species composition of tuna catches taken by purse seiners
This paper makes a presentation of the multi-species
size sampling that have been conducted in the Indian and
Atlantic oceans since the early eighties allowing to
estimate the average species and size composition of tuna
landings by pole and line vessels and purse seiners. The
paper further discusses the structural biases that are
expected when sampling the complex mixture of sizes and
species that are observed on FAD schools, when done by
observers. It advocates the necessity to sample these
catches using large scale port multispecies sampling
schemes. The data processing of these multi species
samples is also discussed, based the methods developed by
EU scientists in the Atlantic and Indian oceans. The paper
recommends promoting a unified sampling scheme of
purse seine landings in the WCP and a unified data
processing of these size and species samples. The final
recommendation of the paper would to process all the
WCP historical data of species composition using this new
method, and to promote as soon as possible in the WCP
such optimized sampling scheme, this sampling being
fully coordinated between IATTC and WCPFC at the
scale of the entire Pacific Ocean.



1004) Recherche du mot : bouey (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/bouey)


1005) Recherche du mot : Gonad (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/gonad)
1/956: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/theimpactofoverfishingandelninoontheconditionfactorandreproductivesuccessofperuvianhakemerlucciusgayiperuanus> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : The impact of overfishing and El Niño on the condition factor and reproductive success of Peruvian hake, Merluccius gayi peruanus
In this study we examine physiological responses of Peruvian hake (Merluccius gayi peruanus) to changes in their population structure and physical environment during the period 1971–2004. In particular, we assess the relative investment of energy in growth and/or reproduction of small (20–35 cm) and large (35–50 cm) hake. We calculated the (i) condition (Fulton's K), (ii) gonad and (iii) gut fullness indices for 42,761 female hakes sampled from commercial landings; these indices indicate fish somatic, reproductive and feeding condition, respectively. Using Generalized Additive Models we then examined potential relationships between these indices and sea surface temperature anomalies and date. Drastic energy exhaustion and a decrease in female hake fecundity were observed during El Niño events. The long-term trend showed a general increase in condition factor and a decrease in gonad index for large hake between 1971 and 2004. Small hake exhibited a different trend with an increase in reproductive activity, which was accompanied by an earlier maturation. We hypothesise that the observed low investment of energy in reproduction by large female hake might be related to the lack of large males, due to a sex-selective fishery and the impact of El Niño. We suggest that fishing diminished hake reproductive capacity, modified the sex ratio in favour of females and increased population vulnerability to environmental stress, in particular to the El Niño. The impact of multidecadal variability and predators like the squid, Dosidicus gigas, remain unresolved until longer time series become available.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

2/957: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/densitydependentchangesinreproductiveparametersandconditionofsouthernbenguelasardinesardinopssagax> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Density-dependent changes in reproductive parameters and condition of Southern Benguela sardine Sardinops sagax
The sardine Sardinops sagax population in the southern Benguela has undergone substantial fluctuations in size over the past 50 years, collapsing from an apparently large population in the 1950s to low levels in the mid-1960s, remaining low for the next two decades, and recovering from the late 1980s to a population size that is now similar to or larger than that which occurred during the 1950s. Marked changes in condition and reproductive parameters of sardine have also occurred during this period; condition and standardised gonad mass are higher and length-at-maturity is lower at low population size compared with high population size. The correspondence between the temporal patterns in condition, reproductive parameters and population size are strongly suggestive of density-dependence, and indicate a compensatory response arising from reduced intraspecific competition. This is likely to have resulted from greater per capita food intake, improved body condition and hence faster growth, thus enabling fish to achieve maturation at a presumably younger age and smaller size. Biological parameters did not vary in or out of phase with time-series of sea surface temperature in the southern Benguela, weakening the hypothesis of environmentally mediated changes in these parameters and hence providing support for the hypothesis of a direct density-dependent response by sardine.

3/958: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/reproductivedynamicsofswordfishxiphiasgladiusinthesouthwesternindianoceanreunionislandpartoocytedevelopmentsexualmaturityandspawning> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean (Reunion Island). Part 1: oocyte development, sexual maturity and spawning
The reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) was investigated from catches of the Reunion Island-based longline swordfish fishery between 19-25 degrees S and 48-54 degrees E. Thus, 1727 swordfish (size range 75-289 cm, lower jaw-to-fork length, LJFL) were sampled on board commercial fishing vessels during the period of May 1998 to January 2001. Reproductive activity was assessed using macroscopic gonad characteristics, trends of gonadal indexes for both sexes, oocyte size-frequency distributions and microscopic investigation of oocyte development stages. Size at first maturity (L-50) for female and male swordfish was estimated in Indian Ocean for the first time. L50 was estimated at 170 cm and 120 cm (LJFL) for females and males, respectively. Spawning occurred from October to April in the vicinity of Reunion Island where sex ratio of caught populations fluctuated seasonally. The seasonal changes in sex ratio and the incidence of larger individuals at the beginning of the spawning season provide some preliminary indications of synchronized movements of swordfish between spawning grounds and neighboring regions. Our results add significantly to knowledge about the reproductive biology of swordfish in the southwestern Indian Ocean. An overview of the available information on reproductive biology and dynamics of swordfish in Indian Ocean and eastern Pacific indicated that spawning activity is localized in discrete areas, and showed that there is incomplete information on spawning grounds in this extended area.



1006) Recherche du mot : crustacean (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/crustacea)
1/959: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/effectoflipidremovaloncarbonandnitrogenstableisotoperatiosincrustaceantissues> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Effect of lipid removal on carbon and nitrogen stable isotope ratios in crustacean tissues
The analysis of tissue's naturally occurring stable carbon and nitrogen isotope ratios is a useful tool to delineate trophic relationships. However, the interpretation of [delta]13C and [delta]15N is complicated by the influence of multiple factors such as the tissue-specific lipid content. The aim of this work was to evaluate the effects of lipid extraction on [delta]13C and [delta]15N compositions in muscle, hepatopancreas and gonads of a marine decapod crustacean, the spider crab Maja brachydactyla. Samples were analyzed for stable isotopes before and after lipid removal, using a derived Soxhlet extraction method. Differences in [delta]13C and [delta]15N were measured among tissues before and after treatment. Lipid extraction of muscle did not have a significant effect on either [delta]13C or [delta]15N. By contrast, ecologically significant shifts for both carbon and nitrogen stable isotopes ratios (+ 2.9 ± 0.8[per mille sign] for [delta]13C, and + 1.2 ± 0.7[per mille sign] for [delta]15N) were noticed in the hepatopancreas. In regard to gonads, lipid extraction led to a shift only on [delta]13C (+ 1.3 ± 0.3[per mille sign]). Finally, the derived Soxhlet extraction method removed the lipid influence for [delta]13C, and had an effect on [delta]15N composition for lipid-rich samples. We recommend this treatment for carbon stable isotope studies on decapod crustacean lipid-rich tissues.

2/960: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatiotemporalvariationindietmayaffectconditionandabundanceofjuvenileeuropeanhakeinthegulfoflionsnwmediterranean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Spatio-temporal variation in diet may affect condition and abundance of juvenile European hake in the Gulf of Lions (NW Mediterranean)
Variations in space and time of juvenile hake diet (5 to 19 cm total length, TL) were investigated in the Gulf of Lions (NW Mediterranean) and related to variation in C and N stable isotope ratios, condition and abundance. Crustaceans (mysids and euphausiids) dominated the diet of the smallest juvenile hake (5 to 9 cm TL), and fishes (sardines and anchovies) of the largest juveniles (15 to 19 cm TL). The transition from a crustacean- to a fish-based diet occurred in medium-sized juveniles (10 to 14 cm TL), which preyed on both crustaceans and fishes (gobiids). These juveniles preyed on fishes when living in shallow waters (30 to 50 m), and crustaceans when located in deep waters (70 to 150 m). Although hake diet did not change over time in shallow waters (fish-based diet), in deep waters it was dominated by mysids and euphausiids in 2002 and natantids in 2003. In the size range analysed, no correlation was found between juvenile hake length and their δ13C and δ15N values, but a significant correlation with depth was observed, with higher values in shallow waters. The condition factor of medium-sized juveniles did not vary with depth in 2002, but was significantly lower in deep waters in 2003 when they fed on natantids instead of small crustaceans. Abundance of juvenile hake in the Gulf of Lions drastically decreased from 2002 to 2003, particularly in deep waters. The lower condition factor of juvenile hake in deep waters in 2003, probably owing to a lack of suitable food, might have negatively affected their survival. These results support the hypothesis that food resources influence condition and survival of juvenile hake when settled, and thus affect NW Mediterranean fisheries.

3/961: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/smallscalespatialandtemporalinteractionsamongbenthiccrustaceansandonefishspeciesinthebayofbiscay> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Small-scale spatial and temporal interactions among benthic crustaceans and one fish species in the Bay of Biscay
In the summer of 2004, a video survey was carried out in the northern part of the central mud bank (Grande Vasière) of the Bay of Biscay to study the small scale relationship between the dominant crustacean megafauna Nephrops norvegicus, Munida rugosa and Goneplax rhomboides and juvenile hake (Merluccius merluccius). Using a towed body, high-resolution videos were recorded in six sampling sites. Statistical modelling using generalised additive models (GAM) revealed variations in activity patterns for two species. More N. norvegicus were observed outside their burrows at dawn and somewhat at dusk (no observations during night) while G. rhomboides was less observed in the morning. In addition, reduced spatial overlap between G. rhomboides and N. norvegicus suggested reduced competition for food but also space as both are burrowing species. The observed temporal and spatial activity patterns may contribute to regulating assemblage structure as competing species may be actively foraging at different times and locations thus reducing direct competition.

4/962: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/influenceoflipidextractiononcarbonandnitrogenstableisotopesincrustaceantissuesassessmentofpolychlorobiphenylbioaccumulationinthespidercrabfoodwebusingstableisotopes> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Influence of lipid extraction on carbon and nitrogen stable isotopes in crustacean tissues. Assessment of polychlorobiphenyl bioaccumulation in the spider crab food web using stable isotopes.


5/963: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecologicalnichesandareasofoverlapofthesquatlobstermunidapleuroncodesmonodonandanchovetaengraulisringensoffperu> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Ecological niches and areas of overlap of the squat lobster 'munida' (Pleuroncodes monodon) and anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) off Peru
The world's largest mono-specific fishery, the Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) fishery, has been the subject of many studies since the 1960s. Details of its relationship with other species have mainly focused on alternations with sardine, Sardinops sagax, and little effort has so far been paid to interactions with other species sharing the same ecosystem. This is the case for Pleuroncodes monodon, the crustacean squat lobster or 'munida', which has become highly abundant along the Peruvian coast since the mid-1990s. Munida is now an important prey for seabirds, mammals and coastal predatory fish. Knowledge of patterns of distribution and ecological niche of munida is scarce however off Peru. Here we describe and compare spatial patterns of distribution of anchoveta and munida and their ecological niches based on data from 26 acoustic surveys performed along the Peruvian coast between 1998 and 2006. The results indicate that munida and anchoveta share ecological niches but that munida is restricted to the coldest part of the productive cold coastal waters whereas anchoveta do not present any temperature preference over a large range (14–23 °C). The recent increase in munida abundance off Peru is concomitant with colder conditions; with their onset munida extended its range from central Chile northwards. Off Peru the very shallow oxycline keeps munida from its usual bottom habitat and has forced it to adopt pelagic behaviour.



1007) Recherche du mot : Auxis sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_sp)


1008) Recherche du mot : Avel vor (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/avel_vor)


1009) Recherche du mot : Great barracuda (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyraena_barracuda)


1010) Recherche du mot : Ceratoscopelus warmingii (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ceratoscopelus_warmingii)


1011) Recherche du mot : Auxis rochei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_rochei)


1012) Recherche du mot : Hawksbill turtle (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/eretmochelys_imbricata)


1013) Recherche du mot : Pez luna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mola_mola)


1014) Recherche du mot : Taonius sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/taonius_sp)


1015) Recherche du mot : Thon à nageoire jaune (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_albacares)


1016) Recherche du mot : Mer adriatique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/adriaticSea)


1017) Recherche du mot : Phrosina semilunata (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/phrosina_semilunata)


1018) Recherche du mot : mobula mobula (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mobula_mobula)


1019) Recherche du mot : Pêcherie de surface (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/surface_fishery)


1020) Recherche du mot : Tiburón jaquetón (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_falciformis)


1021) Recherche du mot : Malcarado de Parin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diretmoides_parini)


1022) Recherche du mot : La pêche à la canne à l’appât vivant (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/canne)


1023) Recherche du mot : Pholidoteuthis boschmai (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pholidoteuthis_boschmai)


1024) Recherche du mot : cuve (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/cuve)


1025) Recherche du mot : Requin soyeux (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_falciformis)


1026) Recherche du mot : Bramidae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bramidae)


1027) Recherche du mot : Effort de pêche (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fishing_effort)


1028) Recherche du mot : Japanese hooked squid (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/moroteuthis_lonnbergii)


1029) Recherche du mot : Silvery hatchetfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/argyropelecus_sladeni)


1030) Recherche du mot : Bluntnose sixgill shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/hexanchus_griseus)


1031) Recherche du mot : paramètre mesuré (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/measuredParameter)


1032) Recherche du mot : Population dynamics (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/population_dynamics)
1/964: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofapecosmaspatializedmassbalancedapexpredatorsecosystemmodeltostudyphysiologicallystructuredtunapopulationdynamicsintheirecosystem> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : An overview of APECOSM, a Spatialized Mass Balanced “Apex Predators ECOSystem Model” to Study Physiologically Structured Tuna Population Dynamics in their Ecosystem
This paper gives an overview of the ecosystem model APECOSM (Apex Predators ECOSystem Model) which is developed in the framework of the GLOBEC-CLIOTOP Programme. APECOSM represents the flow of energy through the ecosystem with a size-resolved structure in both space and time. The uptake and use of energy for growth, maintenance and reproduction by the organisms are modelled according to the DEB (dynamic energy budget) theory (Kooijmann, 2000) and the size-structured nature of predation is explicit. The pelagic community is divided into epipelagic and mesopelagic groups, the latter being subdivided into vertically migrant and non-migrant species. The model is mass-conservative. Energy is provided as the basis of the model through primary production and transferred through 3D spatially explicit size-spectra. Focus species (tunas at present, but any predator species can be considered) are “extracted” from the global size-spectra without losing mass balance and represented with more physiological and behavioural details. The forcing effects of temperature, currents, light, oxygen, primary production and fishing are explicitly taken into account.

2/965: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/zooplanktonandforagefishspeciesoffperulargescalebottomupforcingandlocalscaledepletion> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Zooplankton and forage fish species off Peru: large-scale bottom-up forcing and local-scale depletion
The Humboldt Current System, like all upwelling systems, has dramatic quantities of plankton-feeding fish, which suggested that their population dynamics may ‘drive' or ‘control' ecosystem dynamics. With this in mind we analysed the relationship between forage fish populations and their main prey, zooplankton populations. Our study combined a zooplankton sampling program (1961–2005) with simultaneous acoustic observations on fish from 40 pelagic surveys (1983–2005) conducted by the Peruvian Marine Research Institute (IMARPE) and landing statistics for anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) along the Peruvian coast from 1961 to 2005. The multi-year trend of anchoveta population abundance varied consistently with zooplankton biovolume trend, suggesting bottom-up control on anchovy at the population scale (since oceanographic conditions and phytoplankton production support the changes in zooplankton abundance). For a finer-scale analysis (km) we statistically modelled zooplankton biovolume as a function of geographical (latitude and distance from the 200-m isobath), environmental (sea surface temperature), temporal (year, month and time-of-day) and biological (acoustic anchovy and sardine biomass within 5 km of each zooplankton sample) covariates over all survey using both classification and regression trees (CART) and generalized additive models (GAM). CART showed local anchoveta density to have the strongest effect on zooplankton biovolume, with significantly reduced levels of biovolume for higher neighbourhood anchoveta biomass. Additionally, zooplankton biovolume was higher offshore than on the shelf. GAM results corroborated the CART findings, also showing a clear diel effect on zooplankton biovolume, probably due to diel migration or daytime net avoidance. Apparently, the observed multi-year population scale bottom-up control is not inconsistent with local depletion of zooplankton when anchoveta are locally abundant, since the latter effect was observed over a wide range of overall anchoveta abundance.

3/966: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/jointeffectsofnutrientsandcontaminantsonthedynamicsofafoodchaininmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Joint effects of nutrients and contaminants on the dynamics of a food chain in marine ecosystems
We analyze the joint effect of contaminants and nutrient loading on population dynamics of marine food chains by means of bifurcation analysis. Contaminant toxicity is assumed to alter mortality of some species with a sigmoidal dose–response relationship. A generic effect of pollutants is to delay transitions to complex dynamical states towards higher nutrient load values, but more counterintuitive consequences arising from indirect effects are described. In particular, the top predator seems to be the species more affected by pollutants, even when contaminant is toxic only to lower trophic levels.
© 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

4/967: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/areviewofanalyticalapproachestoinvestigateseabirdenvironmentinteractions> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : A review of analytical approaches to investigate seabird-environment interactions
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution, and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In this paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour, and their environment in order to assess current trends, weaknesses, and future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated; and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where in most cases no behavioral information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. A vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird-environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, meso-scale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modeling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multi-scale, and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

5/968: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/factorsdeterminingtheforagingrangeofwanderingalbatrossesduringtheirbreedingseasonanindividualbasedmodelibmapproach> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Factors determining the foraging range of wandering albatrosses during their breeding season : an individual based model (IBM) approach
Understanding the ecology of albatrosses at sea and in particular their foraging range and the location of their feeding zones is a critical issue for a better understanding of their population dynamics in a changing environment. Since the onset of satellite tracking techniques, it is possible to describe albatross trajectories in both space and time and infer their foraging ranges. Despite these important improvements in our observational capabilities, it is still difficult to evaluate the influence of local environmental cues such as wind and food availability on bird's trajectories. In this talk, we present an Individual Based Model (IBM) of flight pattern and foraging behaviour of free-ranging albatrosses (Diomedea exulans) breeding on the Crozet Islands, in the southwest Indian Ocean. We use winds measured by the satellite Quick-Sat and fields of food simulated by a trophodynamic model as forcing fields. In the IBM model, individuals can choose between different strategies using wind direction and food concentration. The development of the IBM follows a “pattern oriented modelling approach” (POM) in order to determine which strategy better fits the observed trajectories. The IBM is then used to infer potential new foraging areas when wind conditions and prey distribution change. The consequences of such environmental changes on albatross distribution are important issues regarding the conservation of this endangered oceanic top predator.

6/969: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/simulationandquantificationofenrichmentandretentionprocessesinthesouthernbenguelaupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Simulation and quantification of enrichment and retention processes in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem
Important environmental processes for the survival and recruitment of early life stages of pelagic fishes have been synthesized through Bakun's fundamental triad as enrichment, concentration and retention processes (A. Bakun, 1996, Patterns in the Ocean. Ocean Processes and Marine Population Dynamics. San Diego, CA, USA: University of California Sea Grant). This conceptual framework states that from favourable spawning habitats, eggs and larvae would be transported to and/or retained in places where food originating from enrichment areas would be concentrated. We propose a method for quantifying two of the triad processes, enrichment and retention, based on the Lagrangian tracking of particles transported within water velocity fields generated by a three-dimensional hydrodynamic model. We apply this method to the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem, constructing putative maps of enrichment and retention. We comment on these maps regarding main features of the circulation in the region, and investigate seasonal variability of the processes. We finally discuss the results in relation to available knowledge on the reproductive strategies of two pelagic clupeoid species abundant in the southern Benguela, anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax). Our approach is intended to be sufficiently generic so as to allow its application to other upwelling systems.

7/970: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/complexinterplaysamongpopulationdynamicsenvironmentalforcingandexploitationinfisheries> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Complex interplays among population dynamics, environmental forcing, and exploitation in fisheries
The patterns of variations in fisheries time series are known to result from a complex combination of species and fisheries dynamics all coupled with environmental forcing (including climate, trophic interactions, etc.). Disentangling the relative effects of these factors has been a major goal of fisheries science for both conceptual and management reasons. By examining the variability of 169 tuna and billfish time series of catch and catch per unit effort (CPUE) throughout the Atlantic as well as their linkage to the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), we find that the importance of these factors differed according to the spatial scale. At the scale of the entire Atlantic the patterns of variations are primarily spatially structured, whereas at a more regional scale the patterns of variations were primarily related to the fishing gear. Furthermore, the NAO appeared to also structure the patterns of variations of tuna time series, especially over the North Atlantic. We conclude that the patterns of variations in fisheries time series of tuna and billfish only poorly reflect the underlying dynamics of these fish populations; they appear to be shaped by several successive embedded processes, each interacting with each other. Our results emphasize the necessity for scientific data when investigating the population dynamics of large pelagic fishes, because CPUE fluctuations are not directly attributable to change in species' abundance.

8/971: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climatevariabilityfishandfisheries> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Climate variability, fish and fisheries
Fish population variability and fisheries activities are closely linked to weather and climate dynamics. While weather at sea directly affects fishing, environmental variability determines the distribution, migration, and abundance of fish. Fishery science grew up during the last century by integrating knowledge from oceanography, fish biology, marine ecology and fish population dynamics, largely focused on the great northern hemisphere fisheries. During this period, understanding and explaining interannual fish recruitment variability became a major focus for fisheries oceanographers. Yet, the close link between climate and fisheries is best illustrated by the effect of 'unexpected' events – i.e. non-seasonal, and sometimes catastrophic – on fish exploitation, such as those associated with the El Niño/ Southern Oscillation (ENSO). The observation that fish populations fluctuate at decadal time scales and show patterns of synchrony while being geographically separated drew attention to oceanographic processes driven by low frequency signals, as reflected by indices tracking large scale climate patterns such as the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) and the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO). This low frequency variability was first observed in catch fluctuations of small pelagic fish (anchovies, sardines), but similar effects soon emerged for larger fish such as salmons, various groundfish species, and some tuna species. Today, the availability of long time series of observations combined with major scientific advances in sampling and modelling the oceans ecosystems allows fisheries science to investigate processes generating variability in abundance, distribution and dynamics of fish species at daily, decadal and even centennial scales. These studies are central to the research programme of GLOBEC (Global Ocean Ecosystems Dynamics). In this review, we present examples of relationships between climate variability and fisheries at these different time-scales for species covering various marine ecosystems ranging from equatorial to sub-arctic regions. We describe some of the known mechanisms linking climate variability and exploited fish populations, as well as some leading hypotheses, and their implications for their management and for the modelling of their dynamics. We conclude with recommendations for collaborative work between climatologists,
oceanographers and fisheries scientists to resolve some of the outstanding problems in the development of sustainable fisheries.

9/972: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analyticalapproachestoinvestigatingseabirdenvironmentinteractionsareview> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Analytical approaches to investigating seabird–environment interactions: a review
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In the present paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour and their environment, in order to assess current trends, weaknesses and the future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where, in most cases, no behavioural information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. The vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas a few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird–environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, mesoscale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modelling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multiscale and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

10/973: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anadvectiondiffusionreactionsizestructuredfishpopulationdynamicsmodelcombinedwithastatisticalparameterestimationprocedureapplicationtotheindianoceanskipjacktunafishery> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : An advection-diffusion-reaction size-structured fish population dynamics model combined with a statistical parameter estimation procedure: Application to the Indian Ocean skipjack tuna fishery
We develop an advection-di®usion size-structured ¯sh population
dynamics model and apply it to simulate the skipjack tuna population in the
Indian Ocean. The model is fully spatialized, and movements are parame-
terized with oceanographical and biological data; thus it naturally reacts to
environment changes. We ¯rst formulate an initial-boundary value problem
and prove existence of a unique positive solution. We then discuss the numer-
ical scheme chosen for the integration of the simulation model. In a second
step we address the parameter estimation problem for such a model. With
the help of automatic di®erentiation, we derive the adjoint code which is used
to compute the exact gradient of a Bayesian cost function measuring the dis-
tance between the outputs of the model and catch and length frequency data.
A sensitivity analysis shows that not all parameters can be estimated from the
data. Finally twin experiments in which pertubated parameters are recovered
from simulated data are successfully conducted.



1033) Recherche du mot : Diretmus argenteus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diretmus_argenteus)


1034) Recherche du mot : octopodes (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/autres_octopodes)


1035) Recherche du mot : Vapeur d'eau (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/integratedWaterVapour)


1036) Recherche du mot : Atlantic sailfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/istiophorus_albicans)
1/974: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.



1037) Recherche du mot : Encornet planeur (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ornithoteuthis_volatilis)


1038) Recherche du mot : tapis de rejet (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/tapis_rejet)


1039) Recherche du mot : measured parameter (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/measuredParameter)


1040) Recherche du mot : Maximum Sustainable Yield (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/MSY)
1/975: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitytheoryforecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : Viability theory for ecosystem approach to fisheries
Maintenance of overall ecosystem complexity is perceived as critical to the sustainability of ecosystem use. The development of an operational basis for an ecosystem approach to fisheries, however, faces many difficulties. On the research side, the challenge is in defining proper long-term, ecosystem-related objectives; determining meaningful reference values and indicators for desirable or undesirable states of the ecosystem; and developing appropriate data collection, analytical tools and models. The "viability" concept developed in economics by Jean-Pierre Aubin can be used to assist in the definition, selection of, and interaction among long-term objectives at an ecosystem level. It recognizes that ecosystems are complex assemblages of interacting and self-organizing natural and human components that cannot be predicted. Viability models define an ensemble of "viable states", in contrast to undesirable states defined as such by ecological, economic, and/or social constraints. These constraints can be derived from fisheries objectives, conservation principles, scientific results of modelling, or precautionary principles, and correspond to limit reference points to be avoided. Viability theory does not attempt to choose any "optimal solution" according to given criteria, but selects "viable evolutions". These evolutions are compatible with the constraints in the sense that they satisfy them at each time and can be delineated by the viability kernel. The southern Benguela marine ecosystem is presented as a first attempt for the application of this theory. In defining ecosystem-based objectives (and related issues such as target reference points), it seems more difficult to reach consensus among stakeholders on what is desirable than on what is undesirable (e.g. biological or economic collapse, species extinction, displacement of local rural communities). Expressed in the negative form or as limit reference points, ecosystem-based constraints can be considered simultaneously with current target reference points, such as maximum sustainable yield, using viability models. The viability approach can help to progressively integrate ecosystem considerations, such as conservation, into fisheries management.

2/976: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingforecastingandscenariosincomparableupwellingecosystemscaliforniacanaryandhumboldt> : SCORE = 0.9212371
Doc : Modelling, forecasting and scenarios in comparable upwelling ecosystems: California, Canary and Humboldt
The three eastern boundary ecosystems comparable to the Benguela ecosystem (BCE)
display differences and commonalities. The California (CalCE) and Humboldt Current
(HCE) ecosystems are continuous topographically, whereas the Canary Current
ecosystem (CanCE) is interrupted by the Gulf of Cadiz and the Canaries archipelago.
All have similar regimes of equatorward flow over shelf and slope associated with
upwelling and a subsurface poleward flow over the slope, though in the HCE multiple
flows and counter-flows appear offshore. All systems exhibit year round upwelling in
their centre and seasonal upwelling at their extremes as the trade wind systems that
drive them migrate north and south, though the HCE is strongly skewed toward the
equator. All systems vary on scales from the event or synoptic scale of a few days,
through seasonal, to inter-decadal and long term. Productivity of each system follows
the upwelling cycle, though intra-regional variations in nutrient content and forcing
cause significant variability within regions. The CanCE is relatively unproductive
compared to the CalCE and HCE as a result of differences in large scale circulation
between the Pacific and Atlantic. The latter two systems are dominated by El Niño -
Southern Oscillation (ENSO) variability on a scale of 4-7 years. Physical modeling
with the Princeton Ocean Model and the Regional Oceanic Modeling System has
advanced recently to the stage of reproducing realistic mesoscale features and energy
levels with climatic wind forcing. Operational forecasting by these models with
assimilation of sea surface temperature and other data is successfully implemented in
CalCE. On longer time scales, the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory model is able
to hindcast El Niño variability over the long term up to 2 years in advance. Empirical
ecological models in all three systems have attempted prediction of permissible catch
level (fractional Maximum Sustainable Yield), recruitment, catches or onset of
migration with lack of continued success, partly because discontinuous or inadequate
observations hamper model implementation and assessment. Moreover, empirical
models tuned to particular environments fail when fundamental regime shifts occur.
One of the most successful approaches is that of intensive monitoring of catch and
188 P. Fréon
environmental parameters linked to an informal Operational Management Procedure
(OMP) to inform fisheries management off Peru. This OMP contributed to
preservation of anchovy stock during the 1997-8 El Niño but remains to be formalized
or tested under varying conditions. Prediction on time scales of global warming are
uncertain because physical climate models still disagree on whether upwelling will
intensify or weaken. Possible scenarios on decadal scale based on warming or cooling
of waters in the Eastern Boundary Current systems can be proffered, albeit with little
confidence at present. Future approaches for all systems, including the BCE, will in
the long run likely combine coupled atmospheric/ocean models with biological process
models. Judicious application of purely statistical modeling based on inherent time
series properties will assist, though such techniques are unable to cope with regime
shifts.

3/977: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fishlifehistoriesandmarineprotectedareasanoddcouple> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : Fish life histories and marine protected areas: an odd couple?
ABSTRACT: Though marine protected areas (MPAs) have recently become a central element of many marine resource management plans, the potentially negative effects of MPAs for fisheries harvests remain the major impediment to their use. Understanding population responses to implementation of MPAs, and their consequences for harvests, is essential to assessing the value of MPAs as a management tool. Here I use a simple model to link what we know best about marine species, namely how fast they grow and how much they reproduce, with what we want to know, namely what will be the effects of spatial management efforts. Specifically, I show that whether maximum sustainable yield (MSY) or yield at fixed total recruitment increases with MPAs can be determined by an intuitive equation comparing the change in average individual biomass (i.e. harvestable material) with the change in individual lifetime reproduction due to increasing reserve area. Application of this model to different population structures demonstrates that initial MPA results indicating MSY would be unchanged with reserves for species with simple life-histories do not hold up for species for which biomass, reproduction or mortality vary with age. This explains many negative MPA results from age-structured models of optimally exploited species. On the other hand, the model predicts that species harvested later in life, and which begin reproduction after first harvest, may benefit from MPAs. Nevertheless, for these increases to occur, the age at first reproduction must in general be a considerable time after the age at first harvest.

4/978: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/applicationoftheproceanmodeltotheeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamistunafishery> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : Application of the Procean Model to the eastern atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) tuna fishery
The PROCEAN (PRoduction Catch / Effort ANalysis) model is a multi-fleet biomass dynamic
model developed in a Bayesian framework to conduct stock assessments based on catch and
effort time series data. PROCEAN was applied to the eastern component of the Atlantic
skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) to assess the current status of the stock and provide reference
points to fishery managers. Data included 8 time series of catch and effort data spanning from
1969 to 2006 and mostly standardised based on generalized linear modelling techniques.
Informative priors and constraints for some parameters were used to allow the model to
converge. Model fits were generally good but indicated increasing trends in the residuals for
some fishing fleets. Results suggested that the eastern Atlantic skipjack stock would be
underexploited, with a biomass in 2006 equal to 1.8 times the biomass at the maximum
sustainable yield (MSY) and a fishing mortality in 2006 equal to 30% of the fishing mortality at
MSY (FMSY). A sensitivity analysis performed to account for uncertainty in some input
parameters showed that FMSY estimates were robust to parameter changes while MSY estimates
were sensitive to the prior distribution for MSY. Based on the different model runs, the MSY
was estimated to be comprised between 152,000 and 185,000 t. The use of random walks on
catchability was useful for tracking changes in catchability and associated increasing fishing
power for some baitboat fishing fleets targeting skipjack.

5/979: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitytheoryforanecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : Viability theory for an ecosystem approach to fisheries
Maintenance of overall ecosystem complexity is perceived as critical to the sustainability of ecosystem use. The development of an operational basis for an ecosystem approach to fisheries, however, faces many difficulties. On the research side, the challenge is in defining proper long-term, ecosystem-related objectives; determining meaningful reference values and indicators for desirable or undesirable states of the ecosystem; and developing appropriate data collection, analytical tools and models. The ‘‘viability'' concept developed in economics by Jean-Pierre Aubin can be used to assist in the definition, selection of, and interaction among long-term objectives at an ecosystem level. It recognizes that ecosystems are complex assemblages of interacting and self-organizing natural and human components that cannot be predicted. Viability models define an ensemble of ‘‘viable states'', in contrast to undesirable states defined as such by ecological, economic, and/or social constraints. These constraints can be derived from fisheries objectives, conservation principles, scientific results of modelling, or precautionary principles, and correspond to limit reference points to be avoided. Viability theory does not attempt to choose any ‘‘optimal solution'' according to given criteria, but selects ‘‘viable evolutions''. These evolutions are compatible with the constraints in the sense that they satisfy them at each time and can be delineated by the viability kernel. The southern Benguela marine ecosystem is presented as a first attempt for the application of this theory. In defining ecosystem-based objectives (and related issues such as target reference points), it seems more difficult to reach consensus among stakeholders on what is desirable than on what is undesirable (e.g. biological or economic collapse, species extinction, displacement of local rural communities). Expressed in the negative form or as limit reference points, ecosystembased constraints can be considered simultaneously with current target reference points, such as maximum sustainable yield, using viability models. The viability approach can help to progressively integrate ecosystem considerations, such as conservation, into fisheries management. © 2004 International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.



1041) Recherche du mot : Alopias vulpinus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alopias_vulpinus)


1042) Recherche du mot : Oilfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ruvettus_pretiosus)


1043) Recherche du mot : onboard observation (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/onboard_observation)


1044) Recherche du mot : christophe colomb (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/christophe_colomb)


1045) Recherche du mot : Albacore (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_albacares)
1/980: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/onthenorthatlanticalbacorestockandonitspotentialsubpopulations> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : On the North Atlantic albacore stock and on its potential sub populations
This paper discusses the potential biological heterogeneity of the North Atlantic albacore stock. Based on the historical work by Aloncle and Delaporte in 1974, the paper keeps the hypothesis that at least 3 sub populations, well stratified & following an east west gradient of longitude, could have been exploited by the albacore surface fisheries. This heterogeneity of the stock has not been taken into account in the present stock assessment by SCRS, but it could play a major role in the fishery trend, as the present shrinking of the historical fishing zones could have produced a decline of the present stock MSY. Scientific investigations are actively recommended to solve this major uncertainty in the stock structure of the Northern Atlantic albacore stock and to better evaluate its potential impact on the stock assessment results.

2/981: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/resourcepartitioningwithinatropicalseabirdcommunitynewinformationfromstableisotopes> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Resource partitioning within a tropical seabird community: new information from stable isotopes
Characteristics of the tropical oceanic environment (low productivity, little seasonality) and poor diversity of tropical seabird foraging methods and prey relative to temperate and polar species suggest that tropical seabirds overall encompass a narrow range of isotopic niches, with large overlaps among species. To test this hypothesis, we examined the stable carbon (δ13C) and nitrogen (δ15N) isotopic composition of blood and feathers of 5 seabird species from Europa Island, Mozambique Channel. While differences were small, blood δ13C and δ15N values characterized 5 distinct and non-overlapping trophic niches during the breeding period. Seabirds used 2 distinct foraging areas (δ13C), one used by sooty tern Sterna fuscata and white-tailed tropicbird Phaethon lepturus and one used by red-footed booby Sula sula and great Fregata minor and lesser F. ariel frigatebirds. Seabird species overall encompassed less than 1 trophic level (δ15N), which is in agreement with a diet mainly based on flying fish and squid. Feather δ13C and δ15N values showed that the trophic structure of the community was different during the breeding and non-breeding (moulting) periods, suggesting a shift in the feeding ecology when adult birds were no longer central-place foragers. The stable isotope method underlined sex-related (red-footed booby) and age-related (great frigatebird immatures and adults) feeding strategies. It also suggested that breeding adults could feed themselves on different prey than those given to their chicks (sooty tern). Within the tropical pelagic ecosystem, seabirds overall shared the same trophic level as large predatory fishes (albacore, yellowfin and skipjack tunas), but they had lower δ15N values than the deeper-dwelling bigeye tuna and swordfish. We conclude that analyzing stable isotope values in blood and feathers appears to be a promising alternative method for investigating food and feeding ecology of tropical seabirds year round, and for determining sex- and age-related differences in their foraging strategies. A limitation of the method is the lack of information on marine isoscapes; future studies aimed at isotopically characterizing the tropical marine environment could help to associate consumer signatures to geographic origins.

3/982: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/investigatingrelationshipsbetweenalbacorethunnusalalungacpueandpreydistributioninthebayofbiscay> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Investigating relationships between albacore (Thunnus alalunga) CPUE and prey distribution in the Bay of Biscay


4/983: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/timeseriesanalysisoftunaandswordfishcatchesandclimatevariabilityintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Time series analysis of tuna and swordfish catches and climate variability in the Indian Ocean (1968-2003)
We analysed the patterns of variation that characterize 33 catch time series of large pelagic fishes exploited by the Japanese and Taiwanese longline fisheries in the Indian Ocean from 1968 to 2003. We selected four species, the yellowfin (Thunnus albacares), the bigeye (T. obesus), the albacore (T. alalunga), and the swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and aggregated data into five biogeographic provinces of Longhurst (2001).We carried out wavelet analyses, an efficient method to study non-stationary time series, in order to get the time-scale patterns of each signals. We then compared and grouped the different wavelet spectra using a multivariate analysis to identify the factors (species, province or fleet) that may influence their clustering. We also investigated the associations between catch time series and a large-scale climatic index, the DipoleMode Index (DMI), using cross wavelet analyses. Our results evidenced that the geographical province is more important than the species level when analyzing the 33 catch time series in the tropical Indian Ocean. The DMI further impacted the variability of tuna and swordfish catch time series at several periodic bands and at different temporal locations, and we demonstrated that the geographic locations modulated its impact.We discussed the consistency of time series fluctuations that reflect embedded information and complex interactions between biological processes, fishing strategies and environmental variability at different scales.

5/984: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/esessioniotc> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : 8e session IOTC
The number of hooks between floats (HBF) is classically considered in standardization studies of the longline fishing effort as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. The explanation of this choice is easy for understanding : an increase of the HBF (then an increase of the length of the mainline between floats represents a increase in fishing depths. Probably, this relationship has been valid for traditional longlines until the end of eighties. However, the modernization of the fishing gear (monofilament mainline, shooter, snaps) has considerably modified the tradition and has led to a wide diversification of setting tactics. As a related consequence of this modernization, HBF has lost his property as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. In this work, we show briefly why the relationship between HPB and the maximum fishing depth is artificial. This hypothesis is supported from a comparative analysis of temporal series of the average HBF and the weight contribution of albacore and bigeye in catches. This fact underlines the problem of the use of HBF in the frame of the measure of the effective fishing effort in longline fisheries (GLM approach). In this context, the necessity of additional information characterizing longlining strategies is discussed.



1046) Recherche du mot : Anoplogaster cornutus (misspelled) (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/anoplogaster_cornuta)


1047) Recherche du mot : sla (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seaLevelAnomaly)
1/985: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/patternsofvariabilityofseasurfacechlorophyllinthemozambiquechannelaquantitativeapproach> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Patterns of variability of sea surface chlorophyll in the Mozambique Channel:A quantitative approach
We analyse the coupling between sea surface chlorophyll concentration (CC) and the physical environment in the Mozambique Channel (MZC) using statistical models. Seasonal and interannual patterns are studied along with the role of mesoscale dynamics on enhancement and concentration processes for phytoplankton. We use SeaWifs data for CC and two other remotely sensed data sets, TMMI for sea surface temperature (SST) and merged altimetry products for sea level anomaly and geostrophic current. Empirical Orthogonal Functions (EOF) on SSC and SST show strong seasonality and partition the MZC into three distinct sub-areas. The chlorophyll variability is mostly driven by seasonality, but more in the North (10°S–16°S) and South (24°S–30°S), and explains respectively 64% and 82% of the CC variance. In the Central part (16°S–24°S), the seasonal signal has less influence (60% variance). There, complex EOFs on Sea Level Anomaly (SLA) highlight the role of mesoscale activity (i.e. eddies and filament structures) in the spatial distribution of chlorophyll. Five mesoscale descriptors (shear, stretch, vorticity, deformation and eddy kinetic energy) are derived from the altimetry data to quantify the eddies-related physical patterns in the central region of the MZC. We use generalized Additive Models to explain the effect of those features on phytoplankton enhancement. The best model fit (r2=0.73) includes shear, stretch, vorticity and the latitude-longitude interaction as eddies are well structured in space. Cyclonic eddies associated with negative vorticity are conductive to phytoplankton enhancement by the effect of upwelling in the core notably during the spin-up phase. The interaction between eddies generate strong frontal mixing favourable to the production and aggregation of organic matter. The mesoscale activity is also affected by interannual variability with consequences on CC. We highlight a substantial reduction of the SLA pattern in 2000–2001 when the SOI positive phase is peaking (Nina-type pattern). The strong relationship between mesoscale eddies and SOI suggests that primary productivity in the MZC is also under the influence of distant forcing at a basin scale.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

2/986: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acousticcharacterizationoftropicaltunapreyinthewesternindianoceaninrelationwithenvironmentalconditions> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Acoustic characterization of tropical tuna prey in the Western Indian Ocean in relation with environmental conditions
From 2002 to 2004, four scientific cruises were conducted by the Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD) in the Mozambique Channel (Western Indian Ocean), in order to study the pelagic habitat of large top predators such as tuna and tuna-like species. Acoustic data were recorded to investigate the spatial and temporal distribution of plankton layers and micronekton aggregations. Top predators (tunas and tuna-like species) that were caught by longlines were considered as biological samplers of the micronekton organisms. The Sea Level Anomalies (SLA) were used to characterize the presence of a persistent field of mesoscale anticyclonic gyres in the Mozambique Channel. In this study, we studied the possible links between the mesocale dynamics of the eddies, the presence of prey detected by acoustics, and the diet of tunas caught by longlines. We attempted to demonstrate the importance of mesoscale dynamics for the productivity in this area (i.e., occurrence of cyclonic eddies in the Mozambique Channel) for the distribution of the micronekton organisms that are consumed by the top predators.



1048) Recherche du mot : Décrire ici un cas d'étude qui illustre la problématique d'une pêcherie au Chalut en précisant la ou les ressources, la localisation , la période... (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/fisheryWithTrawlExampleCaseStudy)


1049) Recherche du mot : Thunnus maccoyii (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_maccoyii)


1050) Recherche du mot : Kogia simus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/kogia_sima)


1051) Recherche du mot : Sternopthychidae sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sternopthychidae_sp)


1052) Recherche du mot : Informatique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/computer_sciences)


1053) Recherche du mot : Palmate octopus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tremoctopus_violaceus)


1054) Recherche du mot : Atlantique tropicale Est (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/eastern_tropical_atlantic_ecosystem)


1055) Recherche du mot : rosrico (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/rospico)


1056) Recherche du mot : sea_surface_height_above_geoid (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seaLevelAnomaly)


1057) Recherche du mot : Thyrsitoides marleyi (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thyrsitoides_marleyi)


1058) Recherche du mot : marge continentale (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/continental_margin)


1059) Recherche du mot : GBIF identifier for a taxon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/gbifId)


1060) Recherche du mot : machine (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/machine)


1061) Recherche du mot : DJIBOUTI (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_DJI_JIB)


1062) Recherche du mot : terrace (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/terrace)


1063) Recherche du mot : Lepidochelys olivacea (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lepidochelys_olivacea)


1064) Recherche du mot : Thazard tacheté du sud (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_brasiliensis)


1065) Recherche du mot : Ocean sunfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mola_mola)


1066) Recherche du mot : Dormilona (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lobotes_surinamensis)


1067) Recherche du mot : fishing gear (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fishing_gear)
1/987: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/complexinterplaysamongpopulationdynamicsenvironmentalforcingandexploitationinfisheries> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Complex interplays among population dynamics, environmental forcing, and exploitation in fisheries
The patterns of variations in fisheries time series are known to result from a complex combination of species and fisheries dynamics all coupled with environmental forcing (including climate, trophic interactions, etc.). Disentangling the relative effects of these factors has been a major goal of fisheries science for both conceptual and management reasons. By examining the variability of 169 tuna and billfish time series of catch and catch per unit effort (CPUE) throughout the Atlantic as well as their linkage to the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), we find that the importance of these factors differed according to the spatial scale. At the scale of the entire Atlantic the patterns of variations are primarily spatially structured, whereas at a more regional scale the patterns of variations were primarily related to the fishing gear. Furthermore, the NAO appeared to also structure the patterns of variations of tuna time series, especially over the North Atlantic. We conclude that the patterns of variations in fisheries time series of tuna and billfish only poorly reflect the underlying dynamics of these fish populations; they appear to be shaped by several successive embedded processes, each interacting with each other. Our results emphasize the necessity for scientific data when investigating the population dynamics of large pelagic fishes, because CPUE fluctuations are not directly attributable to change in species' abundance.

2/988: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/esessioniotc> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : 8e session IOTC
The number of hooks between floats (HBF) is classically considered in standardization studies of the longline fishing effort as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. The explanation of this choice is easy for understanding : an increase of the HBF (then an increase of the length of the mainline between floats represents a increase in fishing depths. Probably, this relationship has been valid for traditional longlines until the end of eighties. However, the modernization of the fishing gear (monofilament mainline, shooter, snaps) has considerably modified the tradition and has led to a wide diversification of setting tactics. As a related consequence of this modernization, HBF has lost his property as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. In this work, we show briefly why the relationship between HPB and the maximum fishing depth is artificial. This hypothesis is supported from a comparative analysis of temporal series of the average HBF and the weight contribution of albacore and bigeye in catches. This fact underlines the problem of the use of HBF in the frame of the measure of the effective fishing effort in longline fisheries (GLM approach). In this context, the necessity of additional information characterizing longlining strategies is discussed.



1068) Recherche du mot : Zorro pelágico (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alopias_pelagicus)


1069) Recherche du mot : crab larvae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/crab_larvae)
1/989: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragefaunainthedietofthreelargepelagicfishlancetfishswordfishandyellowfintunainthewesternequatorialindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Forage fauna in the diet of three large pelagic fish (lancetfish, swordfish and yellowfin tuna) in the western equatorial Indian Ocean
Prey composition and resource partitioning were investigated among three large pelagic fish predators, yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox), in a poorly known oceanic area, the western Indian Ocean. The contents of 380 non-empty stomachs were analysed from specimens caught with longlines during scientific cruises carried out from 2001 to 2003. Diet data were processed by occurrence, mean proportion by number, wet weight, and mean proportion by reconstituted weight. Crustaceans, dominated by the swimming crab Charybdis smithii and the stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris, were the major food source of lancetfish. Cannibalism was also significant for that species. Yellowfin tunas preyed upon a large diversity of mesopelagic fishes, crustaceans (C. smithii and crab larvae) and cephalopods (the ommastrephid Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis). Mesopelagic fishes (Cubiceps pauciradiatus and Diretmoides parini) and cephalopods (mainly S. oualaniensis) were the main prey of swordfish. Diet overlap between swordfish and yellowfin tuna was evidenced by high Morisita-Horn index. But the feeding habits of these three predators differed by foraging depth and prey size, with swordfish feeding at deeper depths and on larger prey than the more epipelagic lancetfish and yellowfin tuna. Using these three predators as biological samplers, the present study provides novel data on micronekton fauna that is poorly documented in the western Indian Ocean: 67 families and 84 species of prey were recovered in the stomach contents, and our results indicate the presence of large resources of pelagic crustaceans that play a primary role in the epipelagic food chain.



1070) Recherche du mot : vallée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/valley)


1071) Recherche du mot : Mobula diabolus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mobula_diabolus)


1072) Recherche du mot : Polyprion americanus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/polyprion_americanus)


1073) Recherche du mot : glacis péri-insulaire (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/archipelagic_apron)


1074) Recherche du mot : Elephant Seal (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mirounga_leonina)
1/990: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/timetoeatmeasurementsoffeedingbehaviourinalargemarinepredatorthenorthernelephantsealmiroungaangustirostris> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Time to eat: measurements of feeding behaviour in a large marine predator, the northern elephant seal Mirounga angustirostris
The at-sea behaviour of marine predators is often described based on changes in behavioural states, such as transit, searching, and feeding. However, to distinguish between these behaviours, it is necessary to know the actual functions of the behaviours recorded. Specifically, to understand the foraging behaviour of marine predators, it is necessary to measure prey consumption. Therefore, the at-sea feeding behaviour of northern elephant seals (N�=�13) was examined using satellite transmitters, time-depth recorders, and stomach temperature recorders. In addition, stomach temperature telemetry allowed for the validation of indirect measures of feeding behaviour used for marine predators, including decreases in transit rate and changes in dive shape. Feeding data were recorded for the early phase of the migration (2�2201321 days). The first feeding events occurred shortly after animals departed (4�0���1�5�h) and close to the rookery (58�6���21�9�km), but these feedings were followed by extended periods without prey consumption (14�5���2�5�h). Continuous (bout) feeding did not occur until on average 7�5���1�8 days after the females left the rookery. Females showed significant differences in the feeding rate while feeding in a bout (1�320132�1 feeding events hour22121). There was a significant negative relationship between interpolated transit rate and feeding events (r2�=�0�62, P�<�0�01). Feeding, which was associated with all dive types, occurred most often during the foraging type dive shape (74�2%). Finally, successful feeding only occurred between 18201324% of the time when females displayed the foraging type dive shape suggesting that the use of dive shape alone, while indicative of behaviours associated with foraging (searching and catching prey) overestimates actual feeding behaviour. This study showed females not only feed extensively during the early migration, but there was individual variation in both foraging locations and foraging success. In addition, by combining direct and indirect measures of feeding, this study has provided support for the use of foraging indicators in marine predators.

2/991: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/aparsimoniousapproachtomodelinganimalmovementdata> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : A parsimonious approach to modeling animal movement data
Animal tracking is a growing field in ecology and previous work has shown that simple speed filtering of tracking data is not sufficient and that improvement of tracking location estimates are possible. To date, this has required methods that are complicated and often time-consuming (state-space models), resulting in limited application of this technique and the potential for analysis errors due to poor understanding of the fundamental framework behind the approach. We describe and test an alternative and intuitive approach consisting of bootstrapping random walks biased by forward particles. The model uses recorded data accuracy estimates, and can assimilate other sources of data such as sea-surface temperature, bathymetry and/or physical boundaries. We tested our model using ARGOS and geolocation tracks of elephant seals that also carried GPS tags in addition to PTTs, enabling true validation. Among pinnipeds, elephant seals are extreme divers that spend little time at the surface, which considerably impact the quality of both ARGOS and light-based geolocation tracks. Despite such low overall quality tracks, our model provided location estimates within 4.0, 5.5 and 12.0 km of true location 50% of the time, and within 9, 10.5 and 20.0 km 90% of the time, for above, equal or below average elephant seal ARGOS track qualities, respectively. With geolocation data, 50% of errors were less than 104.8 km (<0.94°), and 90% were less than 199.8 km (<1.80°). Larger errors were due to lack of sea-surface temperature gradients. In addition we show that our model is flexible enough to solve the obstacle avoidance problem by assimilating high resolution coastline data. This reduced the number of invalid on-land location by almost an order of magnitude. The method is intuitive, flexible and efficient, promising extensive utilization in future research.



1075) Recherche du mot : Scombrolabrax heterolepis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scombrolabrax_heterolepis)


1076) Recherche du mot : Adriatic Sea (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/adriaticSea)


1077) Recherche du mot : ecological trait (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ecological_trait)


1078) Recherche du mot : colline (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/hill)


1079) Recherche du mot : Argyropelecus gigas (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/argyropelecus_gigas)


1080) Recherche du mot : Octopoteuthis sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/octopoteuthis_sp)


1081) Recherche du mot : FAO identifier for the family of a taxon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/faoFamily)


1082) Recherche du mot : Outil de gestion (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/management_tool)


1083) Recherche du mot : TAC (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/relatedTAC)


1084) Recherche du mot : Indian Ocean (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/indianOcean)
1/992: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/tagsheddingbytropicaltunasintheindianoceanexplanatoryanalysesandfirstresults> : SCORE = 4.094387
Doc : Tag Shedding by Tropical Tunas in the Indian Ocean: explanatory analyses and first results


2/993: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.

3/994: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usinglocalecologicalknowledgelektoprovideinsightonthetunapurseseinefleetsoftheindianoceanusefulformanagement> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Using local ecological knowledge (LEK) to provide insight on the tuna purse seine fleets of the Indian Ocean useful for management
The purse seine fishery in the Western Indian Ocean is dominated by Spanish and French vessels that rely heavily on the use of drifting fish aggregation devices (DFADs) to capture tropical tuna species (skipjack, yellowfin and bigeye tuna). This study uses local ecological knowledge (LEK) obtained through standardized interviews of fishing masters to compare and characterize the body of local ecological knowledge, fishing technology and fishing strategies of both fleets, with the goal of obtaining useful information for the management of the fishery. A notable difference between fleets was the number of DFADs actively monitored per vessel at any given time, which was much higher for Spanish vessels (ca. 60 versus 20 DFADs). Spanish vessels also achieved higher vessel CPUE (catch per DFAD set) than their French counterparts. The use of supply vessels to manage, monitor and protect productive DFADs, and the latest satellite-based technology to track and remotely monitor DFAD aggregations is restricted to the Spanish fleet. The French do not use supply vessels and deploy less sophisticated tracking buoys. These technological disparities resulted in some fishing strategy differences between both fleets, but few differences were found in the knowledge of tuna behavior accumulated by the fishers.

4/995: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/roleofpelagiccrustaceansinthedietofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxintheseychelleswaters> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) in the Seychelles waters
The role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox was investigated from stomach content analysis of fish collected in the waters surrounding the Seychelles Archipelago in the western Indian Ocean. Crustaceans accounted for 88.4% by prey number and 73.7% by reconstituted mass during the South-West monsoon season. During the North-East monsoon season, crustaceans remained the main prey group and accounted for 63.7% by prey number and 46% by reconstituted mass. There was a clear seasonal pattern with the portunid crab Charybdis smithii predominating during the South-West monsoon season and the pelagic stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris during the North-East monsoon season. This pattern likely reflects variations in prey availability linked to current movements around the Seychelles Archipelago. Most of the prey consisted of slow-swimming and small individuals, which occur in dense swarms during the pelagic phase of their life history. The dietary trends of lancetfish are consistent with opportunistic feeding on the most abundant prey. They exploit short food chains based on carnivorous crustaceans, and play an important role in the pelagic trophic functioning of the western Indian Ocean.

5/996: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/behaviorofdolphinfishcoryphaenahippurusarounddriftingfadsasobservedfromautomatedacousticreceivers> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Behavior of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) around drifting FADs as observed from automated acoustic receivers
To study the behavior of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) around drifting Fish Aggregating Devices (FADs), we tagged individuals with long-lived, coded sonic transmitters and attached automated sonic receivers to drifting FADs in two regions of theWestern Indian Ocean. Among the three tagging methods used in this study (surgery, external hooks, underwater bait without capture), the latest resulted in residence times significantly shorter than the other ones, likely due to regurgitation. Dolphinfish tagged with the two other methods usually stayed several days associated to FADs (Kaplan-Meier survival analysis 5.09 days, mean 6.25 days, SD 4.39 days, maximum 15.26 days), drifting with them. There was no significant difference in the residence times of dolphinfish in equatorial and tropical areas. While associated to FADs, dolphinfish spent most of their time close to floating object (<365 m). The total time spent away from FADs was low (median 8%), and likely corresponded to making feeding excursions. Dolphinfish did not form a single school while associated to a given FADs, but formed multiple small schools. FADs are likely to be sites with exchanges of individuals between schools. These results are discussed in regards to the possibility of FADs acting as ecological traps and the validity of meeting-point hypotheses as an explanation for fish aggregations under floating objects.

6/997: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragingofthegreenseaturtlecheloniamydasonseagrassbedsatmayotteislandindianoceandeterminedbyacoustictransmitters> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Foraging of the green sea turtle Chelonia mydas on seagrass beds at MayotteIsland (Indian Ocean), determined by acoustic transmitters
We studied the foraging rhythms of green sea turtles Chelonia mydas on the seagrass
beds of N'Gouja Bay, Mayotte Island (Comoros Archipelago) with acoustic transmitters and moored
listening stations. We monitored 8 tagged turtles (4 probable males, 3 probable females and 1 immature),
from 70 to 109 cm curved carapace length (CCL), for durations ranging from 5 to 92 d. The
turtles exhibited a regular diel pattern: they foraged mainly during the day (on average 87% of seagrass
detections were between 06:00 and 18:00 h) and rested on the inner reef slope during the night.
Night time feeding activities were observed on the seagrass bed when the night light was high. The
presence of turtles on the seagrass bed at night was significantly correlated with a night light index
(r = 0.54, p = 0.002), which included both moon light and cloudiness indices. Behaviour of the only
immature individual observed was similar to adult turtles, although it rested more frequently around
noon. All turtles displayed a high fidelity to 1 foraging site within the seagrass bed. Acoustic transmitters
and permanent listening stations are an appropriate technique for long-term behavioural
studies of turtles, with no human interaction with turtles during tracking, and represent a suitable
technique to assess the possible effects of environmental changes or human activities upon green
turtle behaviour.

7/998: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/isotopicevidenceofdistinctfeedingecologiesandmovementpatternsintwomigratorypredatorsyellowfintunaandswordfishofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.2410451
Doc : Isotopic evidence of distinct feeding ecologies and movement patterns in two migratory predators (yellowfin tuna and swordfish) of the western Indian Ocean
Ecologists primarily use δ15N values to estimate the trophic level of organisms, while δ13C, and even recently δ15N, are utilized to delineate feeding habitats. However, many factors can influence the stable isotopic composition of consumers, e.g. age, starvation or isotopic signature of primary producers. Such sources of variability make the interpretation of stable isotope data rather complex. To examine these potential sources of variability, muscle tissues of yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) and swordfish (Xiphias gladius) of various body lengths were sampled between 2001 and 2004 in the western Indian Ocean during different seasons and along a latitudinal gradient (23°S to 5°N). Body length and latitude effects on δ15N and δ13C were investigated using linear models. Both latitude and body length significantly affect the stable isotope values of the studied species but variations were much more pronounced for δ15N. We explain the latitudinal effect by differences in nitrogen dynamics existing at the base of the food web and propagating along the food chain up to top predators. This spatial pattern suggests that yellowfin and swordfish populations exhibit a relatively unexpected resident behaviour at the temporal scale of their muscle tissue turnover. The body length effect is significant for both species but this effect is more pronounced in swordfish as a consequence of their different feeding strategies, reflecting specific physiological abilities. Swordfish adults are able to reach very deep water and have access to a larger size range of prey than yellowfin tuna. In contrast, yellowfin juveniles and adults spend most of their time in the surface waters and large yellowfin tuna continue to prey on small organisms. Consequently, nitrogen isotopic signatures of swordfish tissues are higher than those of yellowfin tuna and provide evidence for different trophic levels between these species. Thus, in contrast to δ13C, δ15N analyses of tropical Indian Ocean marine predators allow the investigation of complex vertical and spatial segregation, both within and between species, even in the case of highly opportunistic feeding behaviours. The linear models developed in this study allow us to make predictions of δ15N values and to correct for any body length or latitude differences in future food web studies.

8/999: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/theswimmingcrabcharybdissmithiidistributionbiologyandtrophicroleinthepelagicecosystemofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.8310655
Doc : The swimming crab Charybdis smithii: distribution, biology and trophic role in the pelagic ecosystem of the western Indian Ocean
Surface ‘‘swarms'' of the swimming crabs Charybdis smithii are still considered as an unusual phenomenon in the open Indian Ocean, although their dense pelagic aggregations were already reported in waters off the Indian coast and in the northern Arabian Sea. Based on an extensive large-scale data series taken over 45 years, we demonstrate that C. smithii is common in the pelagic provinces of the western Indian Ocean driven by the wind monsoon regime. Swimming crabs are dispersed by the monsoon currents throughout the equatorial Indian Ocean.They aggregate at night in the upper 150-m layer, where their estimated biomass derived from pelagic trawling data can exceed 130 kg km-2. Abundance of C. smithii can reach >15,000 ind. km-2 in July (i.e. the peak of the southwest monsoon), declines by 50-fold in March and is negligible in May. C. smithii is an important prey for more than 30 species of abundant epipelagic top predators. In turn, it feeds on mesopelagic species. This swimming crab is a major species of the intermediate trophic levels and represents a crucial seasonal trophic link in the open ocean ecosystem of the western Indian Ocean. Outbursts in pelagic waters of huge biomasses of ordinarily benthic crustaceans (C. smithii and Natosquilla investigatoris) are a remarkable feature of the Indian Ocean, although similar, but smaller, events are reported in the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.

9/1000: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysisofdataobtainedfromobserverprogrammesconductedinandintheindianoceanonboardfrenchpurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Analysis of data obtained from observer programmes conducted in 2005 and 2006 in the indian ocean on board french purse seiners
This paper is a preliminary analysis of the data obtained under the National Database Plan (PNDB).
Between October 2005 and July 2006, three observers from the Development and Research Institute
(IRD) have been on board four French tuna purse seiners. They had to estimate by-catch and discard
and collect detailed information on the fishing activities and the use of FADs.
Areas prospected during these 134 days were NW Seychelles, SE Seychelles, E. Somalia and
Maldives-Chagos; 194 sets (116 positives and 86 negative) have been observed, with a majority
(84%) on free schools (162 sets, 51% positive) and quite few (16%) on associated schools (32 sets,
81% positives). During the day, the main activities of the boat were searching and fishing,
respectively 31% and 13% of total activity. Main reasons for null sets over free school as well as
FADs was that fish sinks or move too fast.
Discards were practically nulls and concerned mainly yellowfin tuna. About by-catch, it represents
less than 1% of total catch (in weight), mainly triggerfish, rainbow runner and wahoo. Selacians
(except shark whales) represented nearly 12% of the total by-catch (in weight) with mainly silky shark
over FADs and skate over free school. As regards billfishes, they represent 5% of total by-catch (in
weight) with mainly Indo-Pacific Sailfish over free school and black marlin over FADs.

10/1001: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/exploratorybehaviourofademersalfisharoundanartificialreefwithacousticmultitaggingthecaseoflutjanuskasmirainstpaulbayreunionislandindianocean> : SCORE = 2.866071
Doc : Exploratory behaviour of a demersal fish around an artificial reef with acoustic multitagging : the case of Lutjanus kasmira in St-Paul bay (Reunion island / Indian Ocean)


11/1002: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/frenchpurseseinetunafisheriesstatisticsintheindianocean> : SCORE = 2.316135
Doc : French purse-seine tuna fisheries statistics in the Indian Ocean, 1981-2005
This document presents a summary of the main general French purse-seiners activities in
the Indian Ocean since 1981: effort, catch by species and fishing type (log and free
swimming schools), catch per unit of effort, sampling and mean weights for the main species.

12/1003: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/frenchpurseseinetunafisheriesstatisticsintheindianocean> : SCORE = 2.316135
Doc : French purse-seine tuna fisheries statistics in the Indian Ocean, 1981-2005
This document presents a summary of the main general French purse-seiners activities in
the Indian Ocean since 1981: effort, catch by species and fishing type (log and free
swimming schools), catch per unit of effort, sampling and mean weights for the main species.

13/1004: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/seasonaldivingbehaviourinlactatingsubantarcticfursealsonamsterdamisland> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Seasonal diving behaviour in lactating subantarctic fur seals on Amsterdam Island
Diving behaviour was investigated in female
subantarctic fur seals (Arctocephalus tropicalis) breeding
on Amsterdam Island, Indian Ocean. Data were col-
lected using electronic Time Depth Recorders on 19
seals during their ®rst foraging trip after parturition in
December, foraging trips later in summer, and during
winter. Subantarctic fur seals at Amsterdam Island are
nocturnal, shallow divers. Ninety-nine percent of re-
corded dives occurred at night. The diel dive pattern and
changes in dive parameters throughout the night suggest
that fur seals follow the nycthemeral migrations of their
main prey. Seasonal changes in diving behaviour
amounted to the fur seals performing progressively
deeper and longer dives from their ®rst foraging trip
through winter. Dive depth and dive duration increased
from the ®rst trip after parturition (16.6  0.5 m
and 62.1  1.6 s respectively, n  1000) to summer
(19.0  0.4 m and 65  1 s, respectively, n  2000)
through winter (29.0  1.0 m and 91.2  2.2 s, re-
spectively, n  800). In summer, subantarctic fur seals
increased the proportion of time spent at the bottom
during dives of between 10 and 20 m, apparently
searching for prey when descending to these depths,
which corresponded to the oceanic mixed layer. In
winter, fur seals behaved similarly when diving between
20 and 50 m, suggesting that the most pro®table depths
for feeding moved down during the study period. Most
of the dives did not exceed the physiological limits of
individuals. Although dive frequency did not vary (10
dives/h of night), the vertical travel distance and the time
spent diving increased throughout the study period, while the post-dive interval decreased, indicating that
subantarctic fur seals showed a greater diving effort in
winter, compared to earlier seasons.

14/1005: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/growthratesandapparentgrowthcurvesforyellowfinskipjackandbigeyetaggedandrecoveredintheindianoceanduringtheiottp> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Growth rates and apparent growth curves, for yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tagged and recovered in the Indian Ocean during the IOTTP
This working paper analyzes the apparent growth rates of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tagged and recovered in the Indian Ocean as a function of their sizes. This study is based on the provisional recovery data released in June 2008 by the IOTC secretariat. The first step of the study describes the criteria used to eliminate various potential errors in this provisional recovery file. The analysis concentrates on the estimation of the apparent growth rates of the three species, as a function of their average sizes between tagging and recovery. This analysis does not directly target to fit a theoretical growth model to the recovery data. But apparent growth curves are deduced from growth rates, for the three species and provide size/age relationships which that may well be suitable as an input of assessment models. It was assumed that these observed results are often more realistic than a theoretical growth obtained through an inadequate growth model. These results are compared with the growth patterns previously estimated by scientists and used by the IOTC for its stock assessments. The comparison shows that yellowfin and bigeye growth are clearly following 2 stanza models and not Von Bertalanffy models, as these species are showing slower growth rates at their early juvenile stages. This 2 stanza model is also apparent for skipjack but at a lower degree. It can be noted that growth rates of yellowfin and bigeye appears to be very similar for juvenile fishes under 60 cm (and 4 kg), but later widely different, yellowfin showing a much faster growth than bigeye.

15/1006: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/cireneairseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 1.4183372
Doc : Cirene: Air—Sea Interactions in the Seychelles—Chagos Thermocline Ridge Region
The Vasco—Cirene program ex-plores how strong air—sea inter-actions promoted by the shallow thermocline and high sea surface temperature in the Seychelles—Chagos thermocline ridge results in marked variability at synoptic, intraseasonal, and interannual time scales. The Cirene oceano-graphic cruise collected oceanic, atmospheric, and air—sea flux observations in this region in Jan-uary—February 2007. The contem-poraneous Vasco field experiment complemented these measure-ments with balloon deployments from the Seychelles. Cirene also contributed to the development of the Indian Ocean observing system via deployment of a moor-ing and 12 Argo profilers.Unusual conditions prevailed in the Indian Ocean during Janu-ary and February 2007, following the Indian Ocean dipole climate anomaly of late 2006. Cirene measurements show that the Seychelles—Chagos thermocline ridge had higher-than-usual heat content with subsurface anomalies up to 7°C. The ocean surface was warmer and fresher than average, and unusual eastward currents prevailed down to 800 m. These anomalous conditions had a major impact on tuna fishing in early 2007. Our dataset also sampled the genesis and maturation of Tropical Cyclone Dora, including high surface temperatures and a strong diurnal cycle before the cyclone, followed by a 1.5°C cool-ing over 10 days. Balloonborne instruments sampled the surface and boundary layer dynamics of Dora. We observed small-scale structures like dry-air layers in the atmosphere and diurnal warm layers in the near-surface ocean. The Cirene data will quantify the impact of these finescale features on the upper-ocean heat budget and atmospheric deep convection.

16/1007: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitelinkedacousticreceiverstoobservebehavioroffishesinremoteareas> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Satellite-linked acoustic receivers to observe behavior of fishes in remote areas
Automated acoustic receivers are now widely used by biologists to study the behavior of fish. However, currently available acoustic receivers require physical recovery of the units to download stored data. Such operation is often difficult in remote study areas like in the open ocean. We present a new satellite-linked acoustic receiver (Vemco VR3-Argos) that allows downloading data through a satellite uplink (Argos). The VR3-Argos can last up to one year, sending GPS positions and tag data at regular time intervals. We illustrate the advantages of this new technology with tagging data from 121 fish of seven species (yellowfin tuna, bigeye tuna, skipjack tuna, wahoo, dolphinfish, silky shark and oceanic triggerfish) caught and released around drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean, far from any land. In opposition with the classic acoustic receivers (Vemco VR2), the use of VR3-Argos allowed to collect data for several weeks after leaving the drifting FADs. Maximum residence times of 3 days for bigeye tuna, 7 days for skipjack, 8 days for wahoo, 10 days for silky shark and 15 days for yellowfin tuna, dolphinfish and oceanic triggerfish could be recorded. VR2 and VR3-Argos are equivalent in terms of quality of residence times data, however depth data obtained through satellites are aggregated in 8 classes for compression purposes, which leads to a loss of precision available with raw data. Future directions of this technology are discussed.

17/1008: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialdistributionofcubicepspauciradiatusperciformesnomeidaeinthetropicalindianoceananditsimportanceinthedietoflargepelagicfishes> : SCORE = 1.8310655
Doc : Spatial distribution of Cubiceps pauciradiatus (Perciformes:Nomeidae) in the tropical Indian Ocean and its importance in the diet of large pelagic fishes
The bigeye cigarfish (Cubiceps pauciradiatus) is a small pelagic nomeid of the tropical world ocean, often recovered in the stomach contents of top predators such as tunas, billfishes and marine mammals. In the Indian Ocean, a few studies have investigated the biology and the ecology of this species that is one of the most abundant fish of the intermediate trophic levels. In this paper, we investigated the spatial distribution of C. pauciradiatus in the Indian Ocean using pelagic trawl catches carried out between 20°N and 45°S, and the importance of bigeye cigarfish in the diet of 9 piscivorous fishes sampled by different fishing gears in the western part of the Indian Ocean. The highest densities were observed along the eastern coast of Africa and in the Arabian Sea (87 000 individuals per square nautical mile) during the South-West Monsoon and in the eastern part of the Seychelles archipelago (62 200 ind. square nmi) during the North-East Monsoon. Small sized bigeye cigarfish (20–80 mm SL) was a regular and abundant prey (20 to 200 ind. per stomach) for schooling predators exploited by purse seine fishery such as large yellowfin and bigeye tunas chasing prey near the sea surface. Large sized bigeye cigarfish (61–150 mm SL) occurred in small numbers (3 to 20 ind. per stomach) in the stomach contents of swordfish and of large yellowfin and bigeye tunas caught by longline sets at great depths. Large concentrations of bigeye cigarfish occurred in zones of high productivity, and that species constituted seasonally a strong link in the transfer of energy from low to high trophic levels in this part of the Indian Ocean.

18/1009: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/krigingofthelatentprobabilityofabinomialvariableapplicationtofishstatistics> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Kriging of the latent probability of a binomial variable: application to fish statistics
The tropical tuna purse seine fishery is characterised by two fishing modes: one on free swimming tuna schools and one on schools associated with Fish Aggregating Devices (FAD). Our purpose is thus to understand how the two fishing modes are spatially distributed in the Indian Ocean and how this distribution has changed over the seasons and the years. Conditional on the latent probability that a set could be realized on a FAD, the number of sets on FAD was considered as independent Binomial random variables. Such a hierarchical model allows reducing the instabilities encountered when working on empirical ratios based on few observations. We discussed the connections with “kriging with measurement errors” and, the determination of the mean and the variance of the latent variable. The use of 22 years of fishing statistics (1985 – 2006) indicated a small year to year variability between variograms of the latent variable. A single model was thus used to krige the probability for fishing sets to be on log school. The time series of the kriging maps highlighted areas of systematic large probability of the second fishing mode which was consistent with expert knowledge but question the stationarity assumption made on the latent variable.

19/1010: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acousticcharacterizationoftropicaltunapreyinthewesternindianoceaninrelationwithenvironmentalconditions> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Acoustic characterization of tropical tuna prey in the Western Indian Ocean in relation with environmental conditions
From 2002 to 2004, four scientific cruises were conducted by the Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD) in the Mozambique Channel (Western Indian Ocean), in order to study the pelagic habitat of large top predators such as tuna and tuna-like species. Acoustic data were recorded to investigate the spatial and temporal distribution of plankton layers and micronekton aggregations. Top predators (tunas and tuna-like species) that were caught by longlines were considered as biological samplers of the micronekton organisms. The Sea Level Anomalies (SLA) were used to characterize the presence of a persistent field of mesoscale anticyclonic gyres in the Mozambique Channel. In this study, we studied the possible links between the mesocale dynamics of the eddies, the presence of prey detected by acoustics, and the diet of tunas caught by longlines. We attempted to demonstrate the importance of mesoscale dynamics for the productivity in this area (i.e., occurrence of cyclonic eddies in the Mozambique Channel) for the distribution of the micronekton organisms that are consumed by the top predators.

20/1011: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deepdivingbehaviorobservedinyellowfintunathunnusalbacares> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Deep diving behavior observed in yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares)
Yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) are known to preferentially occupy the surface mixed layer above the thermocline and it has been suggested that they are physiologically restricted to water temperatures no more than 8 °C colder than surface waters. However, we here report for dive data acquired from a large yellowfin tuna which demonstrate for the first time that this species is indeed capable of making prolonged dives into deep cold waters. A yellowfin tuna (134 cm fork length) caught near an anchored fish aggregating device (FAD) in the Seychelles (Western Indian Ocean) was equipped with an internally implanted archival tag and released. The fish was recaptured 98 days later. As predicted for this species, this fish spent 85% of its time shallower than 75 m (maximum thermocline depth experienced by the fish) but, over the course of the track, it performed three deep dives to 578 m, 982 m and 1160 m. Minimum ambient water temperatures recorded at these depths were 8.6 °C, 7.4 °C and 5.8 °C respectively and varied by up to 23.3 °C from surface temperatures. The fish spent 8.3% of its time in waters more than 8 °C colder than the surface layer and daily experienced a wide range of sea temperatures (mode at 15-16 °C) and of temperatures of the gut cavity (mode at 6 °C). The reason for these dives can not be known. These depths and temperatures significantly exceed those reported in the literature so far and clearly demonstrate that this species has the physiological and behavioral ability to penetrate deep cold sections of the ocean.

21/1012: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwppt> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : IOTC 2008-WPPT-26
Standardized yellowfin and skipjack catch rates of the European purse seine fleets in the Indian ocean from 1984 to 2007 using generalized linear models are presented. Different indexes based on logbooks data for the yellowfin free school catch and yellowfin and skipjack FAD catch have been standardized considering time-space strata, vessel category, as well as environmental effects as explicative variables.
1

22/1013: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climaticoscillationsandtunacatchratesintheindianoceanawaveletapproachtotimeseriesanalysis> : SCORE = 1.8310655
Doc : Climatic oscillations and tuna catch rates in the Indian Ocean: a wavelet approach to time series analysis
We analysed the influence of climatic oscillations
[based on the Indian Oscillation Index (IOI)] on
monthly catch rates of two tropical tuna species in
the equatorial Indian Ocean. We carried out wavelet
analysis, an efficient method of time series analysis
to study non-stationary data. Catch per unit of effort
(CPUE) of bigeye tuna was computed from Japanese
longline statistics from 1955 to 2002 in the equatorial
Indian Ocean and CPUE of yellowfin tuna
was derived from industrial purse seine statistics
from 1984 to 2003 in the Western Indian Ocean.
Wavelet analyses allowed us to quantify both the
pattern of variability in the time series and nonstationary
associations between tuna and climatic
signals. Phase analyses were carried out to investigate
dependency between the two signals. We
reported strong associations between tuna and
climate series for the 4- and 5-yr periodic modes, i.e.
the periodic band of the El Nin˜o Southern Oscillation
signal propagation in the Indian Ocean.
These associations were non-stationary, evidenced
from 1970 to 1990 for bigeye, and from 1984 to
1991 and then from 1993 to 2001 for yellowfin.
Warm episodes (low negative IOI values) matched
increases of longline catch rates of bigeye during the
1970–1990 time frame, whereas the strong 1997–
1998 warm event matched a decrease of purse seine
catch rates of yellowfin. We discussed these results
in terms of changes in catchability for purse seine
and longline.

23/1014: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/divingbehaviouroffemalenorthernrockhopperpenguinseudypteschrysocomemoseleyiduringthebroodingperiodatamsterdamislandsouthernindianocean> : SCORE = 2.866071
Doc : Diving behaviour of female northern rockhopper penguins, Eudyptes chrysocome moseleyi, during the brooding period at Amsterdam Island (Southern Indian Ocean)


24/1015: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparativeforagingecologyandecologicalnicheofasuperabundanttropicalseabirdthesootyternsternafuscatainthesouthwestindianocean> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Comparative foraging ecology and ecological niche of a superabundant tropical seabird: the sooty tern Sterna fuscata in the southwest Indian Ocean
Over 6-million pairs of sooty terns Sterna fuscata breed once a year in the southwest Indian Ocean, mostly on three islands of the Mozambique Channel (Europa, Juan de Nova and Glorieuses) and in the Seychelles region. Seasonal reproduction in either winter or summer is the dominant strategy in the area, but nonseasonal reproduction also occurred in some places like at Glorieuses Archipelago. The feeding ecology of the sooty tern was investigated during the breeding seasons to determine whether terns showed signiWcant diVerences in their trophic ecology between locations. Regurgitations were analyzed to describe the diet of individuals when breeding, and stable isotopes and mercury concentrations were used to temporally integrate over the medium-term of the trophic ecology of both adults and chicks. Overall, the diet was composed of fish, flying squid and fish larvae in different proportions. At Europa and Aride in the Seychelles, where winter reproduction occurs, large epipelagic prey like flying fish or squid dominated the diet. At Juan de Nova, sooty terns reproduce in summer and rely mostly on fish larvae. At Glorieuses (non-seasonal breeding), the diet was intermediate with fish larvae and flying squid being important prey items. The stable-carbon and nitrogen isotope values in blood confirm the differences observed in dietary analysis, and demonstrate different feeding strategies between colonies...δ13 C values of feathers showed spatial segregation between birds from the Mozambique Channel and the Seychelles region. Terns from the Seychelles had also higher δ15 N values. Feather δ13 C values also suggest a significant shift from summer to wintering habitat for birds from Juan de Nova. This study emphasizes the high phenotypic plasticity of the species, which may explain its numerical dominance in all tropical waters of the World's Ocean.

25/1016: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/repetitivefishinglocaldepletionandfishingefficiencies> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Repetitive fishing, local depletion and fishing efficiencies
Commercial catch per unit effort (cpue) recorded by observers on board trawlers operating
in the French EEZ around the Kerguelen Islands (south Indian Ocean) are used to analyse
the impact of repetitive fishing on cpues and to estimate local fishing efficiencies. Series of
cpues from the same fishing locations and no more than two days apart are first built, and
then the mean depletion effect of repetitive fishing (between 4% and 10% for Patagonian
toothfish and around 20% for icefish and marbled notothen) is quantified. Random fluctuations
of cpues around an exponential decrease (i.e. the reference model when fishing efficiencies
are constant) lead to modelling fishing efficiency as a random variable. Based
on the observations of the ratio between two consecutive catches, a method is developed
to estimate the probability density function of fishing efficiencies. The significant decrease
of average fishing efficiency between the start of the fishery and its full exploitation phase is
explained by a change in regulations (from global to individual quotas).

26/1017: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mercurycontentincommercialpelagicfishanditsriskassessmentinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Mercury content in commercial pelagic fish and its risk assessment in the Western Indian Ocean
As top predators of pelagic food webs, large fish naturally bioaccumulate mercury (Hg). Determining Hg burdens in commercialized fish is essential considering the concern about effects of contaminants on human health and the legal thresholds that are therefore set for local consumption and/or exportation. Total Hg levels were measured in the muscular tissue of 183 fish of five commercially important species from the tropical zone of the Western Indian Ocean. All individuals were measured and sexed in order to study the impregnation of Hg with size and sex within each species. Values of Hg found in this part of the Indian Ocean were comparable to Hg in muscular tissue of the same species studied in other areas. The highest Hg levels were noted in Swordfish (Xiphias gladius) caught in waters surrounding Reunion Island (3.97 ± 2.67 μg.g−1 dry weight). Following the Swordfish, in decreasing order of Hg content, were the Yellowfin Tuna (Thunnus albacares) and the Skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), then the Common Dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) and the Wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri ). In the North of the Mozambique Channel, Swordfish had higher Hg levels than Yellowfin Tunas, and Dolphinfish exhibited intermediate Hg levels. The size of a fish was a determinating factor of its Hg burden, as was the species. Differences in size-normalized Hg levels were observed between the two study zones for Swordfish and Common Dolphinfish. Sex, in contrast, did not influence Hg levels suggesting that females and males have similar feeding habits. The muscular Hg levels presented here suggest that consumers of fish originating from theWestern Indian Ocean should limit themselves to one Swordfish based meal per week, or one fish meal a day if they choose to eat tuna or Common Dolphinfish.

27/1018: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/newinformationfrompredatordietsontheimportanceoftwoommastrephidaesthenoteuthisoualaniensisintheindianoceanandhyaloteuthispelagicaintheatlanticocean> : SCORE = 3.2755096
Doc : New information from predator diets on the importance of two Ommastrephidae: Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis in the Indian Ocean and Hyaloteuthis pelagica in the Atlantic Ocean


28/1019: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/factorsdeterminingtheforagingrangeofwanderingalbatrossesduringtheirbreedingseasonanindividualbasedmodelibmapproach> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Factors determining the foraging range of wandering albatrosses during their breeding season : an individual based model (IBM) approach
Understanding the ecology of albatrosses at sea and in particular their foraging range and the location of their feeding zones is a critical issue for a better understanding of their population dynamics in a changing environment. Since the onset of satellite tracking techniques, it is possible to describe albatross trajectories in both space and time and infer their foraging ranges. Despite these important improvements in our observational capabilities, it is still difficult to evaluate the influence of local environmental cues such as wind and food availability on bird's trajectories. In this talk, we present an Individual Based Model (IBM) of flight pattern and foraging behaviour of free-ranging albatrosses (Diomedea exulans) breeding on the Crozet Islands, in the southwest Indian Ocean. We use winds measured by the satellite Quick-Sat and fields of food simulated by a trophodynamic model as forcing fields. In the IBM model, individuals can choose between different strategies using wind direction and food concentration. The development of the IBM follows a “pattern oriented modelling approach” (POM) in order to determine which strategy better fits the observed trajectories. The IBM is then used to infer potential new foraging areas when wind conditions and prey distribution change. The consequences of such environmental changes on albatross distribution are important issues regarding the conservation of this endangered oceanic top predator.

29/1020: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/regionalfeedingpatternsofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Regional feeding patterns of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) of the western Indian Ocean
The food composition of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox Lowe, 1833) was studied in two areas belonging to different biogeographic provinces of the western Indian Ocean: Indian Monsoon Gyres Province (MONS) and Indian South Subtropical Gyre Province (ISSG). A total of 158 lancetfish were sampled during two research longline cruises in 1986-1987: 50 within the MONS, from the western equatorial area (between the EEZs of Kenya and Seychelles) and 108 within the ISSG, from the northern part of the EEZ of Mauritius (Saya-de-Malha Bank – Agalega Islands area). In the equatorial area, 135 prey items (of 18 families or higher taxa) were found in the lancetfish stomachs. In the waters of Mauritius, 476 prey items of 53 taxa were recorded. Regional variability in the feeding habits reflects province-specific differences in the prey abundance and the structure of pelagic communities of the intermediate trophic levels. Large predatory crustaceans dominate in the waters of MONS, while they are absent in the poor waters of ISSG. Foraging success of the lancetfish on non-evasive prey was 3.2 times higher in the MONS than in the ISSG. In overall, swimming crab, Hyperiidea, conspecifics, barracudina, hatchetfish, hammerjaw, and Polychaeta were the predominant prey of the lancetfish. Great differences in the food composition of ‘small' (FL

30/1021: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ninenationsoneoceanabenchmarkappraisalofthesouthwesternindianoceanfisheriesproject> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Nine nations, one ocean: A benchmark appraisal of the South Western Indian Ocean Fisheries Project (2008–2012)
Coastal and island states of the Western Indian Ocean lack scientific and management capacity to draw sustainable benefits from their Exclusive Economic Zones. Declining ecosystem services and unregulated fishing has prompted nine riparian countries to develop a regional framework for capacity building and scientific development towards collective management of shared resources. Supported by the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the Agulhas and Somali Currents large marine ecosystems programme consists of three inter-related modules, supported by different agencies: land-based impacts on the marine environment (UNEP); productivity, ecosystem health and nearshore fisheries (UNDP) and transboundary shared and migrating fisheries resources (World Bank). The latter is the South Western Indian Ocean Fisheries Project (SWIOFP), a 5-year joint data gathering and fisheries assessment initiative. SWIOFP is a prelude to long-term cooperative fisheries management in partnership with the newly established FAO–South Western Indian Ocean Fisheries Commission (SWIOFC). We describe the development of SWIOFP as a model of participatory regional scientific cooperation and collective ocean management.
© 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

31/1022: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/wherehavethetagsgonesimulationoftagssintagasimplemodeltoestimatethenumberandsizeoftunastaggedbytherttpiothatarecurrentlystillalive> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Where have the tags gone? SImulatioN of TAGs (SINTAG): A simple model to estimate the number and size of tunas tagged by the RTTP-IO that are currently still alive.
The large scale Regional Tuna Tagging Programme in the Indian Ocean (RTTP-IO) has reported a 14% return rate of the 168.000 tuna tagged between 2005 and 2007. Approximately 96% of these returns have been reported from the purse seine fishery. This has lead to speculation that the tagged tuna have not yet reached sizes at which they could be caught by longliners (bigeye and yellowfin) or by the baitboat fishery (skipjack) A simple exponential decay and growth model has, however, indicated that this may not be the case, and tagged individuals should be available to these fisheries. It would thus appear that tagged tuna are not being reported by the longline and baitboat fisheries and an effort should be made to increase the level of tag reporting in those fleets in order to maximise the usefulness of the data obtained from the RTTP-IO.

32/1023: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fishbehaviourfromfishersknowledgethecasestudyoftropicaltunaarounddriftingfishaggregatingdevicesdfads> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Fish behaviour from fishers' knowledge: the case study of tropical tuna around drifting fish aggregating devices (DFADs)
Purse-seining for tropical tuna is one of the most technologically advanced fisheries in the world. The purpose of this study was to apply local ecological knowledge (LEK) to assist in the planning of future in situ studies of fish behaviour around drifting fish aggregating devices (DFADs) by prioritizing research topics, thereby reducing the number of potential hypotheses to explore. Interviews of fishing masters of the purse-seine fleets working in the western Indian Ocean provided an alternate, independent, and previously unexplored source of behavioural information, specifically on the attraction, retention, and departure behaviours of tuna schools in relation to DFADs. Most fishing masters agreed that the maximum attraction distance of a DFAD is approximately 10 km and generally agreed to the following statements. Tuna form distinct schools under FADs, commonly segregated by species and size. The main reasons for the departure of tuna aggregations from FADs are changes in currents or FAD movements and location in relation to physical or oceanographic features. The number of actively monitored DFADs at sea in the western Indian Ocean was estimated at approximately 2100. Incorporating fishers into the planning and design stages of future research projects will facilitate collaborative and integrated approaches.

33/1024: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/atenyearperiodofdailyseasurfacetemperatureatacoastalstationinreunionislandindianoceanjulyaprilpatternsofvariabilityandbiologicalresponses> : SCORE = 2.4566321
Doc : A ten-year period of daily sea surface temperature at a coastal station in Reunion Island, Indian Ocean (July 1993 – April 2004): patterns of variability and biological responses


34/1025: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/tunamovementpatternspresentlyshownintheindianoceanbytagrecoveriesfromtheiottptaggingprogram> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Tuna movement patterns presently shown in the Indian Ocean by tag recoveries from the IOTTP tagging program
This paper examines the movement patterns shown by the recoveries of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tagged by dart tags during the IOTTP large scale tagging. This analysis is based on a large number of 6236 recoveries belonging to the 3 species. These 3 species show similar movement patterns, and these recovered tunas, tagged in a limited number of peculiar areas, are showing very wide and very fast movement patterns, skipjack being the more mobile species. As a result, the recoveries of the 3 species have been widely scattered in the entire fishing zone of purse seiners, a fishery with large catches and with very good reporting of tags recoveries. This rather extreme mobility of the tagged tunas is quite unique world wide and it remains widely  unexplained. This study also shows and discusses the strange lack of significant recoveries by the Maldivian skipjack fisheries. It also confirms the insufficient rate of tag reporting by longliners and by various coastal fisheries, that are still presently limiting the knowledge of the real movement patterns at a larger scale of yellowfin and bigeye in their global Indian Ocean habitat.

35/1026: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparedresponsesofpurseseineandlonglinetunafisheriestoclimaticanomaliesintheindianocean> : SCORE = 3.2755096
Doc : Compared responses of purse seine and longline tuna fisheries to climatic anomalies in the Indian Ocean, 1980-2005


36/1027: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

37/1028: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/outlookofoceanclimatevariabilityinthewesttropicalindianocean> : SCORE = 2.1275058
Doc : Outlook of ocean climate variability in the West tropical Indian Ocean, 1997‐2008
The trend of the major environmental parameters during the decade 1997‐200 is presented. The decade analysed is characterized by two large anomalous events related to the Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) events that dramatically reduced the catch rates of the purse seine fleets in the West Indian Ocean (WIO). During the IOD events, the WIO shows above normal sea surface temperature, deeper than normal thermocline and depleted chlorophyll concentration, denoting unfavourable foraging conditions in the surface layer. The most recent IOD event (2006‐2007) did not reach the magnitude of that of 1997‐98 but purse seine catches declined sharply from the previous years. Such a decline is undoubtedly related to anomalous environmental conditions affecting catchability, but the hypothesis of a reduced biomass after some years of very high catches may be an additional reason to this decline.

38/1029: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleexploitationofamajortunaconcentrationintheindianocean> : SCORE = 1.4183372
Doc : Mesoscale exploitation of a major tuna concentration in the Indian Ocean
The paper analyzes the daily catch, fishing effort and fish size data of the purse seine fleet fishing in the
western Indian Ocean in February 2005, when a major concentration of tuna occurred and was heavily exploited by
this surface fishery. This tuna concentration event occurred over a period of just 12 days, in an area of about 3500
square nautical miles located to the west of the Seychelles. This small stratum produced a total catch of 22 000 t,
corresponding to 6.5% of the total fishing mortality of all adult yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) in the entire Indian
Ocean in 2005. Sets were made mainly on free schools and the catch mainly composed of large yellowfin tuna. The
average CPUE and the average catch per set were very large, 65 t and 85 t per fishing day, respectively. This “event” took
place in a precise area where a high concentration of chlorophyll had been localized 18 days before. The subsequent
concentration of tuna schools probably arose due to the high densities of their prey feeding on this large phytoplankton
biomass. This phytoplankton bloom was observed at the edge of an anticyclonic eddy, but its origin and its high density
cannot be fully explained by available environmental data. The adult yellowfin were probably at a reproductive stage
and actively feeding on the local food chain generated by the phytoplankton bloom. Such an event is extreme, but
typical of tuna purse seine fisheries where fleets often search for such tuna patches. These events play an important role
in tuna fisheries due to the increase in fishing effort and fishing efficiency of purses seiners, both of which increase their
impact on the resource. The fine scale study of such events and their improved integration into tuna stock assessments
is recommended.

39/1030: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/airseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 2.4566321
Doc : Air-sea interactions in the Seychelles-Chagos thermocline ridge region
A field experiment in the southwestern Indian Ocean provides new insights into ocean–atmosphere interactions in a key climatic region.

40/1031: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimateofthenonlineargrowthrateofyellowfintunathunnusalbacaresintheatlanticandintheindianoceanfromtaggingdata> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Estimate of the non-linear growth rate of yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) in the Atlantic and in the Indian Ocean from tagging data.
In the lack of a satisfactory formulation for the two-stanza growth curve of yellowfin
(Thunnus albacores), estimates of growth rate by size class can be an alternative as an input for
integrated models. From tagging data collected in the Atlantic and in the Indian Ocean, we show
however that for growth rate that does not follow a classical linear decreasing trend over size, simple
estimates of length increments by size are biased due to an averaging effect of the time spent at liberty.
We simulate length at recapture to illustrate the magnitude of the bias which can be expected
depending on the duration of the time at liberty. Our results suggest that for large time at liberty
growth rates by size are smoothed in such a way that the Von Bertalanffy model could erroneously be
considered as a good alternative. With the aim of removing this bias we used a generalized additive
model (GAM) to calculate an instantaneous growth rate by size (i.e., fixing time at liberty at 1 day at
sea). The predicted growth rates by size are lower than the apparent growth rates but are similar in
magnitude and in shape with observed growth rates for moderate times at liberty (< 90 days at sea). In
the light of our findings, we suggest that hard part reading analyses, which in general reject the twostanza
growth assumption, could have been affected by the same type of bias.

41/1032: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwpeb> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : IOTC WPEB - 2008/016
Data collected through 20 observer fishing trips were used to quantify
the number of silky sharks taken as bycatch by the French tuna
purse seine fishery of the Western Indian Ocean. 1,385 immature
silky sharks of which 85% was discarded at sea and 15% retained
aboard, were observed as bycatch during 685 fishing sets observed
from October 2005 to April 2008. Zero-inflated regression models
fitted with Bayesian methods were used to explain silky shark
bycatch as a function of fishing mode (free vs. fishing aggregating
device-associated (FAD) schools), area, and season. Model results
showed that silky sharks occurred in 24% of the fishing sets with an
expected number of sharks per set estimated to be 2.02 ± 0.05. The
3 covariates were found to significantly explain both the presence
and number of silky sharks caught by the French purse seiners. FAD
was shown to have a strong positive effect on the number of silky
sharks caught, an expected value of 4.3 sharks being taken in FADassociated
schools versus 0.3 shark in free schools. There were
significant differences in silky shark bycatch between seasons and
areas with higher bycatch than average in July-September and in the
South-East Seychelles area while fewer sharks were expected to be
caught in the North Somali area. Results are discussed within the
context of the ecosystem approach to fisheries for the analysis of
ecosystem effects of fishing.

42/1033: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/depredationonpelagiclonglinesintheindianoceanananalysisofthesoviethistoricaldatabaseontunaresearch> : SCORE = 3.2755096
Doc : Depredation  on pelagic longlines in the Indian Ocean: an analysis of the Soviet historical database (1961-1989) on tuna research.


43/1034: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/reproductivedynamicsofswordfishxiphiasgladiusinthesouthwesternindianoceanreunionislandpartfecundityandspawningpattern> : SCORE = 1.4183372
Doc : Reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean (Reunion Island). Part 2: fecundity and spawning pattern
Batch fecundity and relative fecundity of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean were estimated from seven gravid swordfish females (size range 127-225 cm lower jaw-to-fork length, LJFL) with unovulated, hydrated oocytes collected onboard Reunion-based (France) longline swordfish fishing vessels between December 1999 to January 2001. To investigate the spawning pattern of swordfish, we used data collected through a combination of two at sea sampling regimes. A total of 17 007 geo-located size data of swordfish were recorded during 8 years (1993-2001) and a total of 1727 (size range 75-289 cm, LJFL) swordfish gonads (1107 females and 620 males) were sampled from May 1998 to January 2001. The estimated batch fecundity ranged from 995 000 hydrated oocytes for the smallest ripe female to 4.3 millions for the largest female sampled measuring respectively 127 to 225 cm in curved length (LJFL). The relative fecundity ranged from 25 to 72 hydrated oocytes per gram of body weight. We found that batch fecundity was positively correlated with fish length and that the older/larger females have earlier and longer spawning seasons than younger/smaller females. These findings suggested that older/larger females which are seasonally migrating in this spawning ground seem to play a major role in reproductive success of the species in producing significantly more offspring than younger females during an extended spawning season. Examination of the length-frequency date from the fishery indicated that the young fish are resident around Reunion and around the seamounts off Reunion Island. Our results highlight the important role of the older/larger females in the reproductive capacity of southwestern Indian Ocean stock. We discuss the potential implications of fishing the older/larger females for this stock in terms of reproduction and recruitment..

44/1035: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingfishcommunitiesassociatedwithdriftingfishaggregatingdevicesfadsinthewesternindianoceanusingunderwatervisualsurveys> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Characterizing fish communities associated with drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean using underwater visual surveys
We adapted a visual census method, mainly used in demersal and reef fish studies, to characterize fish communities associated to drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean. Drifting FAD associated fishes from both equatorial (Seychelles) and tropical waters (Reunion Island) were examined by divers. A total of 32 species (belonging to 16 families) were observed associated with drifting FADs in equatorial waters, and 24 species (14 families) were found around FADs in tropical waters. Twenty species were found in both regions. The highest number of species observed at a single FAD was 18 (12 ± 2, mean ± SD) in equatorial and 13 (10 ± 3) in tropical waters, not counting circumnatant species loosely associated with the FAD. Some species like Kyphosus vaigiensis, Canthidermis maculata, Elagatis bipinnulata, Acanthocybium solandri and Coryphaena hippurus were observed on all or most of the surveys. In this study, the contribution in biomass of the 18 common species associated with drifting FADs (but excluding circumnatant species), represents more than 98% of the biomass. The overall biomass values of closely associated species remains well below tuna biomass estimates for circumnatant tuna schools at FADs, estimated as high as 200 tons. The species that most significantly contribute to the by-catch in tuna purse-seines logically match those that showing the highest biomass values in our surveys (Carcharhinus spp., Elagatis bipinnulata, Coryphaena hippurus, Canthidermis maculata, and Acanthocybium solandri). One of the most abundant and ubiquitous species in our study was the spotted oceanic triggerfish Canthidermis maculata that sometimes formed massive schools of many thousands individuals around the drifting FADs. Future research is needed to explore the role of such non tuna species in the attraction and aggregation processes of tuna around drifting FADs.

45/1036: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anupdatedanalysisoftagsheddingbytropicaltunasintheindianocean> : SCORE = 1.7371012
Doc : An Updated Analysis of Tag-Shedding by Tropical Tunas in the Indian Ocean.
Tag shedding experiment was conducted during the Regional Tuna tagging
Project-Indian Ocean by double-tagging part of the tuna released (27,850
double tags with 4,650 recoveries) with the objective of assessing the tag
shedding rate (type-1 shedding (immediate shedding and tagging-induced
mortality) and tag-2 shedding (continuous shedding and tag-induced
mortality)). This rate was assessed by estimating α and λ of the probability
of tag retention equation Q(t) = α [β/(β+λt)]β). For SKJ α = 0.987, λ (per
year) = 0.015; for YFT α = 0.977, λ (per year) = 0.041 and for BET α =
0.996, λ (per year) = 0.024. These results are comparable to others obtained
from large-scale tropical tuna tagging project.

46/1037: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/catchandeffortdataonsoviettunapurseseinefisheriesintheindianoceanbasedondailyradioreportsdatabase> : SCORE = 2.026618
Doc : Catch and effort data on Soviet tuna purse seine fisheries in the Indian Ocean based on daily radio reports database.
General description of YugNIRO database on Soviet tuna purse seine fisheries in the Indian Ocean is presented. Principal sources of the information for database were daily radio reports on operations and on catch composition of purse seiners. Vessel types, temporal schedule of its activities, total catch and data quality, database structure is described. This paper is a supplement for a fine-scale (1-degree/month) catch statistics and activities dataset, presented to IOTC Secretariat.

47/1038: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyoftropicaltoppredatorsintheindianocean> : SCORE = 4.9132643
Doc : Trophic ecology of tropical top predators in the Indian Ocean


48/1039: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/nitrogenandcarbonisotopevaluesofindividualaminoacidsatooltostudyforagingecologyofpenguinsinthesouthernocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Nitrogen and carbon isotope values of individual amino acids: a tool to study foraging ecology of penguins in the Southern Ocean
We determined the δ15N and δ13C values of individual amino acids (AAs) isolated from chick blood of 4 penguin species that forage in different oceanic regions (from the subtropics of the Indian Ocean to Antarctica) to test if: (1) the δ15N values of phenylalanine (δ15N phe) revealed different foraging areas among the species; (2) the difference between glutamic acid and phenylalanine δ15N values (Δδ15Nglu-phe) accurately predicted trophic levels; and (3) the δ13C value of AAs could resolve species foraging locations, similar to bulk δ13C values. The δ13C values of all AAs decreased with latitude, were positively correlated with bulk δ13C data, and, therefore, tracked the isotopic baseline. However, we were not able to discern additional ecological information from these δ13C values. In contrast, the δ15N values of AAs distinguished the isotopic value of the nitrogen at the base of the food web from the trophic level of the consumer, providing new insight for the study of the trophic ecology of seabirds. The difference in the bulk δ15N values of northern and southern rockhopper penguins Eudyptes chrysocome ssp. was due to both a difference in their foraging location (different δ15N phe) and their trophic levels (different Δδ15Nglu-phe). The δ15N phe values of king Aptenodytes patagonicus and Adélie penguins Pygoscelis adeliae were higher than those of rockhoppers, which could reflect a foraging on mesopelagic prey for king penguins and, in the highly productive Antarctic shelf waters, for Adelie penguins. The Δδ15Nglu-phe accurately reflected the relative trophic level of penguins, but further work is required to determine the trophic enrichment factors for compound-specific isotope analysis.

49/1040: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/historicaldatabaseonsoviettunalonglinetunaresearchintheindianandatlanticoceansfirstresultsofyugnironmfsdatarescueproject> : SCORE = 1.013309
Doc : Historical database on Soviet tuna longline tuna research in the Indian and Atlantic oceans (first results of YugNIRO-NMFS data rescue project)
YugNIRO (formerly AzCherNIRO, till 1988), Kerch, Ukraine started tuna research in the Indian Ocean in early 1960-ies and such studies continued till early 1990-ies. For research purposes medium-sized fishing trawlers converted for pelagic longlining were used. Recent data inventory accounted about 130 research, searching, and fishing pelagic longline cruises for 1961-1989 targeted tunas (generally Thunnus), billfishes (Makaira, Tetrapturus, Xiphias gladius), pelagic sharks (Carcharhinus, Isurus, Alopias, Prionace glauca, Galeocerdo cuvier). Other pelagic species were recorded as bycatch. More than 5200 longline sets with about 2.5 millions nominal hooks were shot. For every research cruise the following data were colleted on set by set basis: number of hooks, hooks distribution by depth, total catch, and catch by species. Almost all the fish caught were measured, weighed, and analyzed. Estimated catch depth of every fish was recorded. Environmental data and MBT station data generally available. Due to lack of computer equipment and limited funding throughout years of data sampling this valuable data were stored on paper as logbooks of longline catches and biological analysis. In spite the careful treatment by YugNIRO personnel, there were a danger of loss for these unique data due to natural deterioration of media under time impact, accidents, natural disasters, other extraordinary situations, etc. In late 2002 under support of NMFS and NFWF data “rescue” project which principal goals were preparation of computer database and make this data available for joint YugNIRO/SWFSC analysis and for IOTC and ICCAT was started. “Rescue” is carried out by digitizing of the data, which exist only as manuscripts, in order to store them on computer media in the form of relational database. This project is at the final stage at presents, since most of the data available are in the digital form. These data represent unique dataset for Indian Ocean which could be used as an independent long-term biological and fisheries database as well as additional information to databases of IPTP/IOTC and national databases of other research center. Data and database description, database structure, first results of the database creation, data digitizing, and analyses, and potential access to the data is presented in this paper.

50/1041: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bycatchanddiscardsoftheeuropeanpurseseinetunafisheryintheindianoceanestimationandcharacteristicsfortheperiod> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : By-catch and discards of the European purse seine tuna fishery in the Indian Ocean. Estimation and characteristics for the 2003-2007 period
By-catch and tuna discards estimation and characteristics for the various species groups are presented for the European purse seine tuna fishery (France and Spain) for the period 2003-2007. Data were collected through French and Spanish observer programs representing a total of 1,958 observed fishing sets. Total by-catch and tuna discards estimation were derived from a stratification based on fishing mode, seasons (quarters) and spatial area. The estimation relied on raising factors based on major commercial tuna catch expressed in tons per 1000 t of tuna landed. Total tuna discards and by-catch was estimated to be about 9,585 t corresponding to 35.5 t per 1000 t of tuna landed. Tuna discards represents 54 % (19.2 t/1000 t) of the total amount, followed by fishes (33.7 %, 12.0 t/1000 t), sharks (10.1, 3.6 t/1000 t), billfishes (1.5 %, 0.5 t/1000 t), and rays (0.7 %, 0.2 t/1000 t). By-catch species composition, main species length and sex structure, and percentage of utilization are also presented. Total by-catch estimates and ratios are compared with those previously published in the literature. The issue raised by the choice of a consistent extrapolation method is finally discussed

51/1042: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityinconspecificpredationamonglongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.7371012
Doc : Variability in conspecific predation among longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox in the western Indian Ocean
Conspecific predation among longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox was investigated in four spatio-temporal strate of the western Indian Ocean. The cannibalism level varied from 0 to 45.5% by frequency of occurrence and was negatively related with abundance of non-evasive prey (such as crustaceans Charybdis smithii and Natosquilla investigatoris) and foraging success. Predation by lancetfish is often described as a non-selective process, constrained by local prey availability and by its feeding speed during an attack of prey. Our results show that lancetfish may adapt its opportunistic foraging behavior, feeding on non-conspecific abundant prey such as crustaceans when available, and switching to a high level of conspecific predation in poor waters.

52/1043: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ices> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : ICES
Small and large pelagic fish are known to aggregate around fish aggregating devices (FADs). One major question in this field is: can fish abundance around FADs be used as a proxy of the total fish abundance in the area? This issue was first addressed through acoustic observations on small pelagic fish in a bay of Reunion island (Western Indian Ocean). Twenty artificial structures such as moored buoys, artificial reefs, aquaculture cages, submarine shipwreck or fishing FADS, are scattered in the bay from 15 m to 50 m depth. We conducted 28 acoustic surveys during new moon periods from February 2003 to August 2006 in order to (1) characterize the effects of FADs on small pelagic fish distributions, (2) study if there is any relationship between the abundance of FAD-associated and non FAD-associated (free) shoals. The frequency histogram of the distance between fish shoals and the nearest FAD revealed a 150 m FAD influence on the distribution of shoals. This distance was applied to distinguish FAD-associated shoals (< 150 m) from free shoals (> 150 m). For these two types of shoal and for each survey, shoal densities (number of shoals by nautical miles) and acoustic and morphological descriptors were then computed. FAD-associated shoal densities were significantly related to free shoal densities, suggesting correlative evidence between both. However, the regression performed on acoustic and morphological descriptors did not show clear relationship. The potential of using densities of shoals around FADs as a proxy for total density in the area is discussed.

53/1044: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/madepreliminaryinformationonanewecprojecttoproposemeasurestomitigateadverseimpactsofopenoceanfisheriestargetinglargepelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : MADE: preliminary information on a new EC project to propose measures to mitigate adverse impacts of open ocean fisheries targeting large pelagic fish
A particular attention has been paid worldwide on longline fisheries as they catch considerable amount of by-catch (seabirds, turtles, sharks, etc.). Seabird and turtles by-catch mitigation methods have now been established in many fisheries worldwide, but similar efforts must be put to reduce by-catch of sharks. In the same ecosystems, another issue attracts the attention of international tuna commissions: the use of drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs). These FADs are responsible for major catches of juvenile tuna and non target pelagic species (sharks). Finally, the effects of thousands of FADs released regularly in the tropical oceans are unknown, and must be studied to estimate if they impact the biology of pelagic species. The European open ocean tropical and Mediterranean pelagic fishery (Spain, France, Portugal, Italy, Greece) is one of the main sources of catch, income and employment for the European fishery, with interactions with many developing countries. The MADE project was set up to develop measures to mitigate adverse impacts of fisheries targeting large pelagic fish in the open ocean: purse seiners using FADs and longliners. This 4-year project, started in mid-2008 within the 7th EC Framework Programme, and is a cooperative research carried out under the coordination of IRD, including 13 scientific institutions belonging to 6 European Countries and 2 ICPC countries in three different areas (Mediterranean Sea, Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean). Two main categories of mitigation measures will be studied: spatial management issues (e.g. closure areas) and technical solutions to reduce by-catch in these fisheries. The main concept of MADE is to follow a multi-disciplinary and comparative approach, combining biological and technological studies with economical analyses in different sites (Indian and Atlantic oceans, Mediterranean Sea), with a particular effort to closely associate fishers.

54/1045: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/timeseriesanalysisoftunaandswordfishcatchesandclimatevariabilityintheindianocean> : SCORE = 1.4183372
Doc : Time series analysis of tuna and swordfish catches and climate variability in the Indian Ocean (1968-2003)
We analysed the patterns of variation that characterize 33 catch time series of large pelagic fishes exploited by the Japanese and Taiwanese longline fisheries in the Indian Ocean from 1968 to 2003. We selected four species, the yellowfin (Thunnus albacares), the bigeye (T. obesus), the albacore (T. alalunga), and the swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and aggregated data into five biogeographic provinces of Longhurst (2001).We carried out wavelet analyses, an efficient method to study non-stationary time series, in order to get the time-scale patterns of each signals. We then compared and grouped the different wavelet spectra using a multivariate analysis to identify the factors (species, province or fleet) that may influence their clustering. We also investigated the associations between catch time series and a large-scale climatic index, the DipoleMode Index (DMI), using cross wavelet analyses. Our results evidenced that the geographical province is more important than the species level when analyzing the 33 catch time series in the tropical Indian Ocean. The DMI further impacted the variability of tuna and swordfish catch time series at several periodic bands and at different temporal locations, and we demonstrated that the geographic locations modulated its impact.We discussed the consistency of time series fluctuations that reflect embedded information and complex interactions between biological processes, fishing strategies and environmental variability at different scales.

55/1046: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bioaccumulationoftraceelementsinpelagicfishfromwesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.7371012
Doc : Bioaccumulation of trace elements in pelagic fish from western Indian Ocean
Trace elements were analyzed in fish of commercial interest to determine their importance in marine systems of the Western Indian Ocean and their bioaccumulation patterns. The results are equivalent or lower than levels reported in ichthyofauna worldwide. Certain values of muscular Cd, Hg, Pb and Zn were, however, above thresholds for human consumption. Levels varied among tissues, species and fish length, but were seldom influenced by the nutritional condition of the fish, its gender and its reproductive status. Correlations between hepatic Hg and Se levels in Swordfish (r2 = 0.747) and Yellowfin Tunas (r2 = 0.226), and among metallothionein linking metals imply the existence of detoxification processes in these species. Level differences between fish from the Mozambique Channel and Reunion Island reflect differences of diets rather than differences of elemental availability in both environments.

Metal bioaccumulation was quantified in four species of pelagic fish.

56/1047: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anadvectiondiffusionreactionsizestructuredfishpopulationdynamicsmodelcombinedwithastatisticalparameterestimationprocedureapplicationtotheindianoceanskipjacktunafishery> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : An advection-diffusion-reaction size-structured fish population dynamics model combined with a statistical parameter estimation procedure: Application to the Indian Ocean skipjack tuna fishery
We develop an advection-di®usion size-structured ¯sh population
dynamics model and apply it to simulate the skipjack tuna population in the
Indian Ocean. The model is fully spatialized, and movements are parame-
terized with oceanographical and biological data; thus it naturally reacts to
environment changes. We ¯rst formulate an initial-boundary value problem
and prove existence of a unique positive solution. We then discuss the numer-
ical scheme chosen for the integration of the simulation model. In a second
step we address the parameter estimation problem for such a model. With
the help of automatic di®erentiation, we derive the adjoint code which is used
to compute the exact gradient of a Bayesian cost function measuring the dis-
tance between the outputs of the model and catch and length frequency data.
A sensitivity analysis shows that not all parameters can be estimated from the
data. Finally twin experiments in which pertubated parameters are recovered
from simulated data are successfully conducted.

57/1048: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/reproductivedynamicsofswordfishxiphiasgladiusinthesouthwesternindianoceanreunionislandpartoocytedevelopmentsexualmaturityandspawning> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean (Reunion Island). Part 1: oocyte development, sexual maturity and spawning
The reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) was investigated from catches of the Reunion Island-based longline swordfish fishery between 19-25 degrees S and 48-54 degrees E. Thus, 1727 swordfish (size range 75-289 cm, lower jaw-to-fork length, LJFL) were sampled on board commercial fishing vessels during the period of May 1998 to January 2001. Reproductive activity was assessed using macroscopic gonad characteristics, trends of gonadal indexes for both sexes, oocyte size-frequency distributions and microscopic investigation of oocyte development stages. Size at first maturity (L-50) for female and male swordfish was estimated in Indian Ocean for the first time. L50 was estimated at 170 cm and 120 cm (LJFL) for females and males, respectively. Spawning occurred from October to April in the vicinity of Reunion Island where sex ratio of caught populations fluctuated seasonally. The seasonal changes in sex ratio and the incidence of larger individuals at the beginning of the spawning season provide some preliminary indications of synchronized movements of swordfish between spawning grounds and neighboring regions. Our results add significantly to knowledge about the reproductive biology of swordfish in the southwestern Indian Ocean. An overview of the available information on reproductive biology and dynamics of swordfish in Indian Ocean and eastern Pacific indicated that spawning activity is localized in discrete areas, and showed that there is incomplete information on spawning grounds in this extended area.

58/1049: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fadiofishaggregatingdevicesasintrumentedobservatoriesofpelagicecosystemsaeuropeanunionfundedprojectondevelopmentofnewobservationalinstrumentsandthebehavioroffisharoundfads> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : FADIO (Fish Aggregating Devices as Intrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) : a European Union funded project on development of new observational instruments and the behavior of fish around FADs
Associative behavior is a major component of the life of pelagic fish. Tropical tuna and other
species are often found in association with floating objects, with other animals, and with topographic
features such as seamounts. Because fish are more abundant, occur in larger schools, or are easier to catch
when aggregated, fishermen extensively use these associations to increase their catches. More than 50%
of the world tuna catches are made from schools associated with floating objects.
There is a clear need for new technologies to study these associations and to propose innovative
methods of management. The European Union has funded a project to study the requirements of future
assessment tools and to develop prototypes. The project: FADIO1 (Fish Aggregating Devices as
Instrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) has conducted five extensive field surveys of the
Western Indian Ocean in conjunction with the large-scale purse seine fishery operating on drifting FADs
that operates in this region.
The objectives of FADIO are to develop new observation and assessment tools and collect data
on the behavior of pelagic fish around drifting FADs. Two categories of instruments are being developed
in collaboration with manufacturers: (1) autonomous buoys equipped with 360º sonar and cameras to
observe aggregations, acoustic receivers to detect individuals carrying electronic tags and satellite uplinks
for both, (2) new electronic tags with ecological sensors. Various field experiments are conducted to
assist in the development of these prototypes. During these scientific cruises, different instruments and
methods are used to document the behavior of associated species concurrently resident on the same FAD,
including: fishing and acoustic tagging, passive and active acoustic surveys, and underwater visual
census. Those observations, combined together, provide valuable insights in the dynamics of FAD
aggregations.
These instruments can be used in the future (i) to build the foundation for future observatories of
pelagic ecosystems, using FADs as scientific platforms for observation and data collection, (ii) to
understand the effects of FADs on tuna and other associated species, even in remote areas, (iii) to help
reducing by-catch around FADs. FADIO began in 2003 and will end in Oct. 2006, with an exposition and
workshop at the Oceanographic Museum in Monaco.

59/1050: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/phytoplanktondistributionintheagulhassystemfromacoupledphysicalbiologicalmodel> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Phytoplankton distribution in the Agulhas system from a coupled physical-biological model
The greater Agulhas Current system has several components with high mesoscale turbulence. The phytoplankton distribution in the southwest Indian Ocean reflects this activity. We have used a regional eddy-permitting, coupled physical-biological model to study the physical-biological interactions and to address the main processes responsible for phytoplankton distribution in three different biogeochemical provinces: the southwest Subtropical Indian Gyre (SWSIG), the subtropical convergence zone (SCZ) and the subantarctic waters (SAW) south of South Africa. The biological model with four compartments (Nitrate-Phytoplankton-Zooplankton-Detritus) adequately reproduces the observed field of chlorophyll a. The phase of the strong modelled seasonality in the SWSIG is opposite to that of the SCZ that forms the southern boundary of the subtropical gyre. Phytoplankton concentrations are governed by the source-minus-sink terms, which are one order of magnitude greater than the dynamical diffusion and advection terms. North of 35°S, in the SWSIG, phytoplankton growth is limited by nutrients supply throughout the year. However, deeper stratification, enhanced cross-frontal transport and higher detritus remineralization explain the simulated higher concentrations of phytoplankton found in winter in the SWSIG. The region between 35° and 40S constitutes a transition zone between the SCZ and the oligotrophic subtropical province. Horizontal advection is the main process bringing nutrients for phytoplankton growth. The front at 34 °S represents a dynamical barrier to an extension further to the north of this advection of nutrients. Within the SCZ, primary production is high during spring and summer. This high productivity depletes the nutrient standing stock built up during winter time. In winter, nutrients supply in the convergence zone is indeed large, but the deep mixing removes phytoplankton from the euphotic zone and inhibits photosynthesis, yielding lower surface chlorophyll a concentrations. Waters south of the Subantarctic Front have a summer biomass close to that of frontal waters and higher than for subtropical waters. However, these simulated concentrations are slightly higher than the observed ones suggesting that limitation by iron and/or silica may play a role.

60/1051: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/visualcensusesoftropicalfishaggregationsonartificialreefsslateversusvideorecordingtechniques> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Visual censuses of tropical fish aggregations on artificial reefs: slate versus video recording techniques
Artificial coastal reefs were initially installed off Reunion Island (SW Indian Ocean) in order to attract and catch small pelagic fish of economic importance for the local fishery. These artificial reefs also attract a high density of juvenile coral reef fish, especially after recruitment. Because of high species richness and density, a suitable method of evaluating diversity and abundance in such assemblages is needed. An experiment was conducted in situ for 1 year in order to test which of the two visual techniques, slate or video recording, would be the most suitable for sampling artificial reefs. For the quantitative study, a rope framework (four belt transects each measuring 24×3 m) was used to ease the movement of the divers. To avoid bias due to time variations, the study was conducted under limited time in situ. The advantages and disadvantages of the two techniques regarding the accuracy of qualitative and quantitative results are discussed. The qualitative study results show that the slate technique is the most accurate one for determining species richness. In the quantitative study, factors such as species characteristics (ecological type), attractiveness (relationship between fish and diver) and abundance of fish communities around the artificial reefs appear to influence our results on the comparison of the two techniques. Of 13 [`]permanent' (observed in more than 75% of dives) species, 6 returned a similar frequency of detection by slate and video (Lutjanus kasmira, Lutjanus bengalensis, Priacanthus hamrur, Chaetodon kleinii, Heniochus diphreutes, Mulloides vanicolensis); these were then selected for comparison of the techniques using quantitative data. The correlation between video and slate census results is high, but, in comparison with the slate census, the video census underestimates abundance, especially for low values. A corrected index is proposed to remedy this underestimation; it could be used for video surveys conducted on species responding well to video detection (as below).

61/1052: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragefaunainthedietofthreelargepelagicfishlancetfishswordfishandyellowfintunainthewesternequatorialindianocean> : SCORE = 1.4183372
Doc : Forage fauna in the diet of three large pelagic fish (lancetfish, swordfish and yellowfin tuna) in the western equatorial Indian Ocean
Prey composition and resource partitioning were investigated among three large pelagic fish predators, yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox), in a poorly known oceanic area, the western Indian Ocean. The contents of 380 non-empty stomachs were analysed from specimens caught with longlines during scientific cruises carried out from 2001 to 2003. Diet data were processed by occurrence, mean proportion by number, wet weight, and mean proportion by reconstituted weight. Crustaceans, dominated by the swimming crab Charybdis smithii and the stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris, were the major food source of lancetfish. Cannibalism was also significant for that species. Yellowfin tunas preyed upon a large diversity of mesopelagic fishes, crustaceans (C. smithii and crab larvae) and cephalopods (the ommastrephid Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis). Mesopelagic fishes (Cubiceps pauciradiatus and Diretmoides parini) and cephalopods (mainly S. oualaniensis) were the main prey of swordfish. Diet overlap between swordfish and yellowfin tuna was evidenced by high Morisita-Horn index. But the feeding habits of these three predators differed by foraging depth and prey size, with swordfish feeding at deeper depths and on larger prey than the more epipelagic lancetfish and yellowfin tuna. Using these three predators as biological samplers, the present study provides novel data on micronekton fauna that is poorly documented in the western Indian Ocean: 67 families and 84 species of prey were recovered in the stomach contents, and our results indicate the presence of large resources of pelagic crustaceans that play a primary role in the epipelagic food chain.



1085) Recherche du mot : Xiphias gladius (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/xiphias_gladius)
1/1053: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/isotopicevidenceofdistinctfeedingecologiesandmovementpatternsintwomigratorypredatorsyellowfintunaandswordfishofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Isotopic evidence of distinct feeding ecologies and movement patterns in two migratory predators (yellowfin tuna and swordfish) of the western Indian Ocean
Ecologists primarily use δ15N values to estimate the trophic level of organisms, while δ13C, and even recently δ15N, are utilized to delineate feeding habitats. However, many factors can influence the stable isotopic composition of consumers, e.g. age, starvation or isotopic signature of primary producers. Such sources of variability make the interpretation of stable isotope data rather complex. To examine these potential sources of variability, muscle tissues of yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) and swordfish (Xiphias gladius) of various body lengths were sampled between 2001 and 2004 in the western Indian Ocean during different seasons and along a latitudinal gradient (23°S to 5°N). Body length and latitude effects on δ15N and δ13C were investigated using linear models. Both latitude and body length significantly affect the stable isotope values of the studied species but variations were much more pronounced for δ15N. We explain the latitudinal effect by differences in nitrogen dynamics existing at the base of the food web and propagating along the food chain up to top predators. This spatial pattern suggests that yellowfin and swordfish populations exhibit a relatively unexpected resident behaviour at the temporal scale of their muscle tissue turnover. The body length effect is significant for both species but this effect is more pronounced in swordfish as a consequence of their different feeding strategies, reflecting specific physiological abilities. Swordfish adults are able to reach very deep water and have access to a larger size range of prey than yellowfin tuna. In contrast, yellowfin juveniles and adults spend most of their time in the surface waters and large yellowfin tuna continue to prey on small organisms. Consequently, nitrogen isotopic signatures of swordfish tissues are higher than those of yellowfin tuna and provide evidence for different trophic levels between these species. Thus, in contrast to δ13C, δ15N analyses of tropical Indian Ocean marine predators allow the investigation of complex vertical and spatial segregation, both within and between species, even in the case of highly opportunistic feeding behaviours. The linear models developed in this study allow us to make predictions of δ15N values and to correct for any body length or latitude differences in future food web studies.

2/1054: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mercurycontentincommercialpelagicfishanditsriskassessmentinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Mercury content in commercial pelagic fish and its risk assessment in the Western Indian Ocean
As top predators of pelagic food webs, large fish naturally bioaccumulate mercury (Hg). Determining Hg burdens in commercialized fish is essential considering the concern about effects of contaminants on human health and the legal thresholds that are therefore set for local consumption and/or exportation. Total Hg levels were measured in the muscular tissue of 183 fish of five commercially important species from the tropical zone of the Western Indian Ocean. All individuals were measured and sexed in order to study the impregnation of Hg with size and sex within each species. Values of Hg found in this part of the Indian Ocean were comparable to Hg in muscular tissue of the same species studied in other areas. The highest Hg levels were noted in Swordfish (Xiphias gladius) caught in waters surrounding Reunion Island (3.97 ± 2.67 μg.g−1 dry weight). Following the Swordfish, in decreasing order of Hg content, were the Yellowfin Tuna (Thunnus albacares) and the Skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), then the Common Dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) and the Wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri ). In the North of the Mozambique Channel, Swordfish had higher Hg levels than Yellowfin Tunas, and Dolphinfish exhibited intermediate Hg levels. The size of a fish was a determinating factor of its Hg burden, as was the species. Differences in size-normalized Hg levels were observed between the two study zones for Swordfish and Common Dolphinfish. Sex, in contrast, did not influence Hg levels suggesting that females and males have similar feeding habits. The muscular Hg levels presented here suggest that consumers of fish originating from theWestern Indian Ocean should limit themselves to one Swordfish based meal per week, or one fish meal a day if they choose to eat tuna or Common Dolphinfish.

3/1055: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/reproductivedynamicsofswordfishxiphiasgladiusinthesouthwesternindianoceanreunionislandpartfecundityandspawningpattern> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean (Reunion Island). Part 2: fecundity and spawning pattern
Batch fecundity and relative fecundity of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean were estimated from seven gravid swordfish females (size range 127-225 cm lower jaw-to-fork length, LJFL) with unovulated, hydrated oocytes collected onboard Reunion-based (France) longline swordfish fishing vessels between December 1999 to January 2001. To investigate the spawning pattern of swordfish, we used data collected through a combination of two at sea sampling regimes. A total of 17 007 geo-located size data of swordfish were recorded during 8 years (1993-2001) and a total of 1727 (size range 75-289 cm, LJFL) swordfish gonads (1107 females and 620 males) were sampled from May 1998 to January 2001. The estimated batch fecundity ranged from 995 000 hydrated oocytes for the smallest ripe female to 4.3 millions for the largest female sampled measuring respectively 127 to 225 cm in curved length (LJFL). The relative fecundity ranged from 25 to 72 hydrated oocytes per gram of body weight. We found that batch fecundity was positively correlated with fish length and that the older/larger females have earlier and longer spawning seasons than younger/smaller females. These findings suggested that older/larger females which are seasonally migrating in this spawning ground seem to play a major role in reproductive success of the species in producing significantly more offspring than younger females during an extended spawning season. Examination of the length-frequency date from the fishery indicated that the young fish are resident around Reunion and around the seamounts off Reunion Island. Our results highlight the important role of the older/larger females in the reproductive capacity of southwestern Indian Ocean stock. We discuss the potential implications of fishing the older/larger females for this stock in terms of reproduction and recruitment..

4/1056: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/historicaldatabaseonsoviettunalonglinetunaresearchintheindianandatlanticoceansfirstresultsofyugnironmfsdatarescueproject> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Historical database on Soviet tuna longline tuna research in the Indian and Atlantic oceans (first results of YugNIRO-NMFS data rescue project)
YugNIRO (formerly AzCherNIRO, till 1988), Kerch, Ukraine started tuna research in the Indian Ocean in early 1960-ies and such studies continued till early 1990-ies. For research purposes medium-sized fishing trawlers converted for pelagic longlining were used. Recent data inventory accounted about 130 research, searching, and fishing pelagic longline cruises for 1961-1989 targeted tunas (generally Thunnus), billfishes (Makaira, Tetrapturus, Xiphias gladius), pelagic sharks (Carcharhinus, Isurus, Alopias, Prionace glauca, Galeocerdo cuvier). Other pelagic species were recorded as bycatch. More than 5200 longline sets with about 2.5 millions nominal hooks were shot. For every research cruise the following data were colleted on set by set basis: number of hooks, hooks distribution by depth, total catch, and catch by species. Almost all the fish caught were measured, weighed, and analyzed. Estimated catch depth of every fish was recorded. Environmental data and MBT station data generally available. Due to lack of computer equipment and limited funding throughout years of data sampling this valuable data were stored on paper as logbooks of longline catches and biological analysis. In spite the careful treatment by YugNIRO personnel, there were a danger of loss for these unique data due to natural deterioration of media under time impact, accidents, natural disasters, other extraordinary situations, etc. In late 2002 under support of NMFS and NFWF data “rescue” project which principal goals were preparation of computer database and make this data available for joint YugNIRO/SWFSC analysis and for IOTC and ICCAT was started. “Rescue” is carried out by digitizing of the data, which exist only as manuscripts, in order to store them on computer media in the form of relational database. This project is at the final stage at presents, since most of the data available are in the digital form. These data represent unique dataset for Indian Ocean which could be used as an independent long-term biological and fisheries database as well as additional information to databases of IPTP/IOTC and national databases of other research center. Data and database description, database structure, first results of the database creation, data digitizing, and analyses, and potential access to the data is presented in this paper.

5/1057: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/timeseriesanalysisoftunaandswordfishcatchesandclimatevariabilityintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Time series analysis of tuna and swordfish catches and climate variability in the Indian Ocean (1968-2003)
We analysed the patterns of variation that characterize 33 catch time series of large pelagic fishes exploited by the Japanese and Taiwanese longline fisheries in the Indian Ocean from 1968 to 2003. We selected four species, the yellowfin (Thunnus albacares), the bigeye (T. obesus), the albacore (T. alalunga), and the swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and aggregated data into five biogeographic provinces of Longhurst (2001).We carried out wavelet analyses, an efficient method to study non-stationary time series, in order to get the time-scale patterns of each signals. We then compared and grouped the different wavelet spectra using a multivariate analysis to identify the factors (species, province or fleet) that may influence their clustering. We also investigated the associations between catch time series and a large-scale climatic index, the DipoleMode Index (DMI), using cross wavelet analyses. Our results evidenced that the geographical province is more important than the species level when analyzing the 33 catch time series in the tropical Indian Ocean. The DMI further impacted the variability of tuna and swordfish catch time series at several periodic bands and at different temporal locations, and we demonstrated that the geographic locations modulated its impact.We discussed the consistency of time series fluctuations that reflect embedded information and complex interactions between biological processes, fishing strategies and environmental variability at different scales.

6/1058: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/reproductivedynamicsofswordfishxiphiasgladiusinthesouthwesternindianoceanreunionislandpartoocytedevelopmentsexualmaturityandspawning> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean (Reunion Island). Part 1: oocyte development, sexual maturity and spawning
The reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) was investigated from catches of the Reunion Island-based longline swordfish fishery between 19-25 degrees S and 48-54 degrees E. Thus, 1727 swordfish (size range 75-289 cm, lower jaw-to-fork length, LJFL) were sampled on board commercial fishing vessels during the period of May 1998 to January 2001. Reproductive activity was assessed using macroscopic gonad characteristics, trends of gonadal indexes for both sexes, oocyte size-frequency distributions and microscopic investigation of oocyte development stages. Size at first maturity (L-50) for female and male swordfish was estimated in Indian Ocean for the first time. L50 was estimated at 170 cm and 120 cm (LJFL) for females and males, respectively. Spawning occurred from October to April in the vicinity of Reunion Island where sex ratio of caught populations fluctuated seasonally. The seasonal changes in sex ratio and the incidence of larger individuals at the beginning of the spawning season provide some preliminary indications of synchronized movements of swordfish between spawning grounds and neighboring regions. Our results add significantly to knowledge about the reproductive biology of swordfish in the southwestern Indian Ocean. An overview of the available information on reproductive biology and dynamics of swordfish in Indian Ocean and eastern Pacific indicated that spawning activity is localized in discrete areas, and showed that there is incomplete information on spawning grounds in this extended area.

7/1059: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragefaunainthedietofthreelargepelagicfishlancetfishswordfishandyellowfintunainthewesternequatorialindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Forage fauna in the diet of three large pelagic fish (lancetfish, swordfish and yellowfin tuna) in the western equatorial Indian Ocean
Prey composition and resource partitioning were investigated among three large pelagic fish predators, yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox), in a poorly known oceanic area, the western Indian Ocean. The contents of 380 non-empty stomachs were analysed from specimens caught with longlines during scientific cruises carried out from 2001 to 2003. Diet data were processed by occurrence, mean proportion by number, wet weight, and mean proportion by reconstituted weight. Crustaceans, dominated by the swimming crab Charybdis smithii and the stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris, were the major food source of lancetfish. Cannibalism was also significant for that species. Yellowfin tunas preyed upon a large diversity of mesopelagic fishes, crustaceans (C. smithii and crab larvae) and cephalopods (the ommastrephid Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis). Mesopelagic fishes (Cubiceps pauciradiatus and Diretmoides parini) and cephalopods (mainly S. oualaniensis) were the main prey of swordfish. Diet overlap between swordfish and yellowfin tuna was evidenced by high Morisita-Horn index. But the feeding habits of these three predators differed by foraging depth and prey size, with swordfish feeding at deeper depths and on larger prey than the more epipelagic lancetfish and yellowfin tuna. Using these three predators as biological samplers, the present study provides novel data on micronekton fauna that is poorly documented in the western Indian Ocean: 67 families and 84 species of prey were recovered in the stomach contents, and our results indicate the presence of large resources of pelagic crustaceans that play a primary role in the epipelagic food chain.



1086) Recherche du mot : DCP (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/FAD)


1087) Recherche du mot : Calamarín alidentado (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ctenopteryx_sicula)


1088) Recherche du mot : rise (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/rise)
1/1060: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofstablesignaturesdcanddnintwospidercrabpopulationsmajabrachydactylainwesterneurope> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Variability of stable signatures (d13C and d15N) in two spider crab populations (Maja brachydactyla) in Western Europe
The ontogenic variations of nitrogen and carbon stable isotopic signatures (δ15N and δ13C) were investigated in two spider crab (Maja brachydactyla) populations inhabiting in different biotopes of Western Europe. The Iroise Sea population is localized in Western Brittany and characterized by a seasonal migration occurring on a large bathymetric and habitat gradient while the Seine Bay population, in the Eastern English Channel, remains in a more homogeneous environment during its migration. In the Iroise Sea population, δ13C values increased significantly both with body size and age, revealing a shift towards “benthic-component” prey with spider crab growth. On the contrary, neither body size nor ageing gave rise to a significant trophic level change (derived from the δ15N). In this M. brachydactyla population, the seasonal migrations from coastal waters in summer to offshore habitats in winter involved significant but slight differences in both δ13C and δ15N. In the Seine Bay population, low variations for both carbon and nitrogen were recorded related to either sex or size or seasonal migration. Thus, the δ13C and δ15N variability in the spider crab depends on the availability and diversity of prey in its different living habitats, as well as on the morphological aptitudes of individuals to feed on prey (individual's size).



1089) Recherche du mot : écosystème de haute mer (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/high_sea_ecosystem)


1090) Recherche du mot : Commission Générale des pêches pour la Méditerranée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/groupGFCM)


1091) Recherche du mot : Mollusca (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/mollusca)


1092) Recherche du mot : Dirette de Parin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diretmoides_parini)


1093) Recherche du mot : Étincelle (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/electrona_risso)


1094) Recherche du mot : Abudefduf vaigiensis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/abudefduf_vaigiensis)


1095) Recherche du mot : Cavolinia sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/cavolinia_sp)


1096) Recherche du mot : Kyphosus vaigiensis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/kyphosus_vaigiensis)
1/1061: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingfishcommunitiesassociatedwithdriftingfishaggregatingdevicesfadsinthewesternindianoceanusingunderwatervisualsurveys> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Characterizing fish communities associated with drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean using underwater visual surveys
We adapted a visual census method, mainly used in demersal and reef fish studies, to characterize fish communities associated to drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean. Drifting FAD associated fishes from both equatorial (Seychelles) and tropical waters (Reunion Island) were examined by divers. A total of 32 species (belonging to 16 families) were observed associated with drifting FADs in equatorial waters, and 24 species (14 families) were found around FADs in tropical waters. Twenty species were found in both regions. The highest number of species observed at a single FAD was 18 (12 ± 2, mean ± SD) in equatorial and 13 (10 ± 3) in tropical waters, not counting circumnatant species loosely associated with the FAD. Some species like Kyphosus vaigiensis, Canthidermis maculata, Elagatis bipinnulata, Acanthocybium solandri and Coryphaena hippurus were observed on all or most of the surveys. In this study, the contribution in biomass of the 18 common species associated with drifting FADs (but excluding circumnatant species), represents more than 98% of the biomass. The overall biomass values of closely associated species remains well below tuna biomass estimates for circumnatant tuna schools at FADs, estimated as high as 200 tons. The species that most significantly contribute to the by-catch in tuna purse-seines logically match those that showing the highest biomass values in our surveys (Carcharhinus spp., Elagatis bipinnulata, Coryphaena hippurus, Canthidermis maculata, and Acanthocybium solandri). One of the most abundant and ubiquitous species in our study was the spotted oceanic triggerfish Canthidermis maculata that sometimes formed massive schools of many thousands individuals around the drifting FADs. Future research is needed to explore the role of such non tuna species in the attraction and aggregation processes of tuna around drifting FADs.



1097) Recherche du mot : Bycatch (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/bycatch)
1/1062: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8775515
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

2/1063: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwpeb> : SCORE = 0.91553277
Doc : IOTC WPEB - 2008/016
Data collected through 20 observer fishing trips were used to quantify
the number of silky sharks taken as bycatch by the French tuna
purse seine fishery of the Western Indian Ocean. 1,385 immature
silky sharks of which 85% was discarded at sea and 15% retained
aboard, were observed as bycatch during 685 fishing sets observed
from October 2005 to April 2008. Zero-inflated regression models
fitted with Bayesian methods were used to explain silky shark
bycatch as a function of fishing mode (free vs. fishing aggregating
device-associated (FAD) schools), area, and season. Model results
showed that silky sharks occurred in 24% of the fishing sets with an
expected number of sharks per set estimated to be 2.02 ± 0.05. The
3 covariates were found to significantly explain both the presence
and number of silky sharks caught by the French purse seiners. FAD
was shown to have a strong positive effect on the number of silky
sharks caught, an expected value of 4.3 sharks being taken in FADassociated
schools versus 0.3 shark in free schools. There were
significant differences in silky shark bycatch between seasons and
areas with higher bycatch than average in July-September and in the
South-East Seychelles area while fewer sharks were expected to be
caught in the North Somali area. Results are discussed within the
context of the ecosystem approach to fisheries for the analysis of
ecosystem effects of fishing.

3/1064: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/indicatorsofsustainablefishingforsouthafricansardinesardinopssagaxandanchovyengraulisencrasicolus> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Indicators of sustainable fishing for South African sardine Sardinops sagax and anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus
Six indicators were investigated for South African sardine Sardinops sagax and anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus: mean length of catch, length-at-50% maturity, total mortality, exploitation rate, ratio of bycatch, and centre of gravity of commercial catches. Sardine length-at-50% maturity is  the most promising as a descriptive indicator because it is positively correlated with population  size for an extensive time period (1953–2005). The remaining indicators were limited by shorter data-series (1984–2005). However, mean length of catch, ratio of bycatch and exploitation rate  were found to be useful when considered in conjunction with other indicators. The centre of gravity of commercial sardine catches has shown a significant eastward shift from the West Coast, whereas that of anchovy has remained off that coast. Ratio of bycatch indicates that school composition is a reliable descriptive indicator of relative abundance in the two species. Fewer indicators for anchovy were useful, which is attributed to this species' flexible life-history pattern.

4/1065: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thermalandtrophichabitatsoftheleatherbackturtleduringthenestingseasoninfrenchguiana> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Thermal and trophic habitats of the leatherback turtle during the nesting season in French Guiana
Understanding environmental cues determining behaviour and habitat use of species of conservation
concern is crucial if one aims at implementing sustainable management of these natural resources. In this
way, here, we investigate the thermal and trophic conditions encountered by the critically endangered
leatherback sea turtle Dermochelys coriacea during its nesting season in French Guiana where high bycatch
rates have been reported.
Mean sea water temperatures obtained in situ by animal-borne recorders were 26.6±0.7 °C in the water
column, with all but one turtle remaining in water N25 °C during the inter-nesting interval. In terms of prey
availability, regular jellyfish stranding events were recorded during the nesting season, on a 1.25-km long
section of the nesting beach. The occurrence of jellyfish was supported by benthic trawls performed on the
continental shelf, with a total of 45.4 kg of jellyfish collected in 3.5 h exclusively in coastal waters 10 to 20 m
deep where water transparency was between 0.8 and 3 m. This is consistent with the at sea distribution area
of gravid leatherbacks during their inter-nesting intervals, as they spent almost 70% of their time diving in
shallow (b20 m deep) waters in front of the Maroni River estuary. In French Guiana, leatherback's gelatinous
prey are thus present in very shallow water close to the nesting site and may be easily exploited by active
gravid leatherbacks. This suggests that French Guiana female leatherbacks may be influenced by local trophic
conditions and actively prospect productive areas overlapping with local fisheries ground.

5/1066: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/historicaldatabaseonsoviettunalonglinetunaresearchintheindianandatlanticoceansfirstresultsofyugnironmfsdatarescueproject> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Historical database on Soviet tuna longline tuna research in the Indian and Atlantic oceans (first results of YugNIRO-NMFS data rescue project)
YugNIRO (formerly AzCherNIRO, till 1988), Kerch, Ukraine started tuna research in the Indian Ocean in early 1960-ies and such studies continued till early 1990-ies. For research purposes medium-sized fishing trawlers converted for pelagic longlining were used. Recent data inventory accounted about 130 research, searching, and fishing pelagic longline cruises for 1961-1989 targeted tunas (generally Thunnus), billfishes (Makaira, Tetrapturus, Xiphias gladius), pelagic sharks (Carcharhinus, Isurus, Alopias, Prionace glauca, Galeocerdo cuvier). Other pelagic species were recorded as bycatch. More than 5200 longline sets with about 2.5 millions nominal hooks were shot. For every research cruise the following data were colleted on set by set basis: number of hooks, hooks distribution by depth, total catch, and catch by species. Almost all the fish caught were measured, weighed, and analyzed. Estimated catch depth of every fish was recorded. Environmental data and MBT station data generally available. Due to lack of computer equipment and limited funding throughout years of data sampling this valuable data were stored on paper as logbooks of longline catches and biological analysis. In spite the careful treatment by YugNIRO personnel, there were a danger of loss for these unique data due to natural deterioration of media under time impact, accidents, natural disasters, other extraordinary situations, etc. In late 2002 under support of NMFS and NFWF data “rescue” project which principal goals were preparation of computer database and make this data available for joint YugNIRO/SWFSC analysis and for IOTC and ICCAT was started. “Rescue” is carried out by digitizing of the data, which exist only as manuscripts, in order to store them on computer media in the form of relational database. This project is at the final stage at presents, since most of the data available are in the digital form. These data represent unique dataset for Indian Ocean which could be used as an independent long-term biological and fisheries database as well as additional information to databases of IPTP/IOTC and national databases of other research center. Data and database description, database structure, first results of the database creation, data digitizing, and analyses, and potential access to the data is presented in this paper.



1098) Recherche du mot : Hapuka (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/polyprion_spp)


1099) Recherche du mot : Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sthenoteuthis_oualaniensis)
1/1067: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/newinformationfrompredatordietsontheimportanceoftwoommastrephidaesthenoteuthisoualaniensisintheindianoceanandhyaloteuthispelagicaintheatlanticocean> : SCORE = 3.2755096
Doc : New information from predator diets on the importance of two Ommastrephidae: Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis in the Indian Ocean and Hyaloteuthis pelagica in the Atlantic Ocean


2/1068: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragefaunainthedietofthreelargepelagicfishlancetfishswordfishandyellowfintunainthewesternequatorialindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Forage fauna in the diet of three large pelagic fish (lancetfish, swordfish and yellowfin tuna) in the western equatorial Indian Ocean
Prey composition and resource partitioning were investigated among three large pelagic fish predators, yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox), in a poorly known oceanic area, the western Indian Ocean. The contents of 380 non-empty stomachs were analysed from specimens caught with longlines during scientific cruises carried out from 2001 to 2003. Diet data were processed by occurrence, mean proportion by number, wet weight, and mean proportion by reconstituted weight. Crustaceans, dominated by the swimming crab Charybdis smithii and the stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris, were the major food source of lancetfish. Cannibalism was also significant for that species. Yellowfin tunas preyed upon a large diversity of mesopelagic fishes, crustaceans (C. smithii and crab larvae) and cephalopods (the ommastrephid Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis). Mesopelagic fishes (Cubiceps pauciradiatus and Diretmoides parini) and cephalopods (mainly S. oualaniensis) were the main prey of swordfish. Diet overlap between swordfish and yellowfin tuna was evidenced by high Morisita-Horn index. But the feeding habits of these three predators differed by foraging depth and prey size, with swordfish feeding at deeper depths and on larger prey than the more epipelagic lancetfish and yellowfin tuna. Using these three predators as biological samplers, the present study provides novel data on micronekton fauna that is poorly documented in the western Indian Ocean: 67 families and 84 species of prey were recovered in the stomach contents, and our results indicate the presence of large resources of pelagic crustaceans that play a primary role in the epipelagic food chain.



1100) Recherche du mot : Caranx sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/caranx_sp)


1101) Recherche du mot : Bonite à ventre rayé (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/katsuwonus_pelamis)


1102) Recherche du mot : Royal escolar (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/rexea_prometheoides)


1103) Recherche du mot : Coryphaena equiselis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/coryphaena_equiselis)


1104) Recherche du mot : Hexanchus griseus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/hexanchus_griseus)


1105) Recherche du mot : Longbill spearfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_pfluegeri)


1106) Recherche du mot : speed-boat (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/speedboat)


1107) Recherche du mot : Eretmochelys imbricata (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/eretmochelys_imbricata)


1108) Recherche du mot : Atlantic white marlin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_albidus)


1109) Recherche du mot : Paralepis atlantica (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/paralepis_atlantica)


1110) Recherche du mot : BOULOGNE (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_FRA_BOL)


1111) Recherche du mot : Pickhandle barracuda (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyraena_jello)


1112) Recherche du mot : Megafauna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/megafauna)
1/1069: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/smallscalespatialandtemporalinteractionsamongbenthiccrustaceansandonefishspeciesinthebayofbiscay> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Small-scale spatial and temporal interactions among benthic crustaceans and one fish species in the Bay of Biscay
In the summer of 2004, a video survey was carried out in the northern part of the central mud bank (Grande Vasière) of the Bay of Biscay to study the small scale relationship between the dominant crustacean megafauna Nephrops norvegicus, Munida rugosa and Goneplax rhomboides and juvenile hake (Merluccius merluccius). Using a towed body, high-resolution videos were recorded in six sampling sites. Statistical modelling using generalised additive models (GAM) revealed variations in activity patterns for two species. More N. norvegicus were observed outside their burrows at dawn and somewhat at dusk (no observations during night) while G. rhomboides was less observed in the morning. In addition, reduced spatial overlap between G. rhomboides and N. norvegicus suggested reduced competition for food but also space as both are burrowing species. The observed temporal and spatial activity patterns may contribute to regulating assemblage structure as competing species may be actively foraging at different times and locations thus reducing direct competition.

2/1070: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/habitatsuitabilityforjuvenilecommonsolesoleasolealinthebayofbiscayfranceaquantitativedescriptionusingindicatorsbasedonepibenthicfauna> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Habitat suitability for juvenile common sole (Solea solea, L) in the Bay of Biscay (France): a quantitative description using indicators based on epibenthic fauna.
This study describes the spatial distribution of young-of-the-year common sole based on beam trawl surveys conducted in late summer in the coastal and estuarine parts of the Bay of Biscay (France). Previous studies showed that habitat suitability for juvenile common sole varies according to physical factors and notably bathymetry and sediment structure. Nevertheless, the use of these descriptors alone to model habitat suitability led to considerable unexplained variability in juvenile common sole distribution. Hence, the epibenthic macro- and megafauna collected during beam trawl surveys was taken into account to improve models of habitat suitability for these juvenile flatfish. Ecotrophic guilds based on life traits (behaviour, mobility and feeding) were used to develop generic indicators of trawled benthic fauna. These synthetic descriptors were used in generalized linear models of habitat suitability in order to characterize the distribution of juvenile common sole. This approach significantly improved the description based on physical descriptors and allowed demonstrating that young common sole distribution is related to the density of trawled deposit and suspension feeders and also of carnivorous organisms. These models provide a reliable method to develop indicators of nursery habitat suitability from trawl survey data with the aim of assessing and surveying their quality.



1113) Recherche du mot : Ecosystème de Humboldt (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/humboldt_ecosystem)


1114) Recherche du mot : Sladen's hatchtefish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/argyropelecus_sladeni)


1115) Recherche du mot : Thon rouge du sud (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_maccoyii)


1116) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus albimarginatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_albimarginatus)


1117) Recherche du mot : Bigeye trevally (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/caranx_sexfasciatus)


1118) Recherche du mot : oeuf (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/egg)


1119) Recherche du mot : Melva (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_thazard)


1120) Recherche du mot : mobula mobular dans worms, fishbase, wiki  ? (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mobula_mobula)


1121) Recherche du mot : pelagic octopoda sp1 (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pelagic_octopoda_sp1)


1122) Recherche du mot : pelagic octopoda sp2 (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pelagic_octopoda_sp2)


1123) Recherche du mot : levée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/levee)


1124) Recherche du mot : Aviso (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/aviso)


1125) Recherche du mot : bayota (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bayota)


1126) Recherche du mot : porcupinefish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diodon_hystrix)


1127) Recherche du mot : marine mammal (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/marine_mammal)


1128) Recherche du mot : Intestin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bowel)


1129) Recherche du mot : North Atlantic Ocean (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/northAtlanticOcean)


1130) Recherche du mot : Activité humaine (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/human_activity)


1131) Recherche du mot : Thunnus alalunga (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_alalunga)
1/1071: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/investigatingrelationshipsbetweenalbacorethunnusalalungacpueandpreydistributioninthebayofbiscay> : SCORE = 3.2755096
Doc : Investigating relationships between albacore (Thunnus alalunga) CPUE and prey distribution in the Bay of Biscay




1132) Recherche du mot : Mako sharks (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/isurus_spp)


1133) Recherche du mot : Lestidiops similis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lestidiops_similis)


1134) Recherche du mot : Shark suckers (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/remora_sp)


1135) Recherche du mot : Isurus oxyrhinchus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/isurus_oxyrhinchus)


1136) Recherche du mot : faune (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fauna)
1/1072: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/chantiergolfedegascogne> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Chantier Golfe de gascogne
L'action des engins de pêche sur le fond a déjà été décrite, filmée. La comparaison de prélèvements dans le secteur de la Grande Vasière réalisés à 30 ans d'intervalle met en évidence une évolution de la faune et de la nature du fond (Le Loch, 2004). Mais peu de chiffres argumentés permettent de quantifier l'impact des engins de pêche sur le fond.
Cette étude pluridisciplinaire se base sur :
- une connaissance de la structure sédimentaire du plateau de la Grande Vasière,
- une analyse des phénomènes en jeu dans le cycle dépôt-remobilisation de la colonne sédimentaire (apports fluviaux, front thermo-halin, houle, courant, organismes fouisseurs,….),
- une typologie des engins de pêche utilisés sur le plateau et un descriptif (largeur balayée, enfoncement, …) de l'action de chacun des éléments (bourrelet, chaîne, bras, panneau)
- une sélection de l'effort de pêche 2003 pour 6 classes de longueur de navire, 9 carrés statistiques, 2 types d'engin (chalut simple ou jumeau) et 2 types de prises (langoustines ou non : différenciation des efforts focalisés sur la Grande Vasière de ceux également répartis dans les carrés statistiques ).
Les résultats portent sur la surface balayée et la quantité de sédiments fins remis en suspension. La paramétrisation des formules permet de tester l'influence de tels ou tels éléments dans le bilan global.
Ainsi chaque mètre carré de la Grande Vasière est balayé au minimum 6 fois par an. La remobilisation des sédiments fins par les engins de pêche est comparable à la remobilisation par les tempêtes.

2/1073: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/portfolioethologiepoissons> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Portfolio Ethologie: Poissons
N'importe quel objet flottant en pleine mer attire invariablement certaines espèces de poissons. Pour comprendre ce comportement, largement exploité par les pêcheurs, biologistes et ingénieurs inventent de nouvelles façons d'observer la faune marine.



1137) Recherche du mot : Spotted Spanish mackerel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_maculatus)


1138) Recherche du mot : sooty albatross (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/phoebetria_fusca)


1139) Recherche du mot : Phoebetria fusca (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/phoebetria_fusca)


1140) Recherche du mot : Yellowtail amberjack (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seriola_lalandi)


1141) Recherche du mot : Striped bonito (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sarda_orientalis)


1142) Recherche du mot : Short snouted lancetfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alepisaurus_brevirostris)


1143) Recherche du mot : Fishing activity (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fishing_activity)
1/1074: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fishingactivityoftunapurseseinersestimatedfromvmsdataandvalidatedbyobserversdata> : SCORE = 3.2755096
Doc : Fishing activity of tuna purse-seiners estimated from VMS data and validated by observers' data.


2/1075: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitemonitoringoffishingvesselsasatooltolocalizeandestimatethefishingactivity> : SCORE = 4.094387
Doc : Satellite monitoring of fishing vessels as a tool to localize and estimate the fishing activity


3/1076: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactoftrophicinteractionsonproductionfunctionsandontheecosystemresponsetofishingasimulationapproach> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Impact of trophic interactions on production functions and on the ecosystem response to fishing: a simulation approach
A simulation model is developed to analyse the variability of production functions in all exploited virtual ecosystem. We assume that a complex food web call be represented by a set of trophic components interacting through predation. Each component has a set of recruitment, growth, and Survival models, a catch level and trophic preference function. Prey are Consumed according to their abundance and predators' trophic preference functions are estimated ill a pristine system. A parameter for the food consumption per unit biomass describes foraging for each trophic component. The FishBase database is used to parameterise some of the major processes in a generic model. A commercial fishery targets mostly high trophic levels through a set selectivity function. Some key ecosystem features are assessed in simulations: the intensity of top-down and of bottom-up controls, and the degree of trophic opportunism. Top-down control is the regulation of lower food-web components by one or several upper-levels predators. Bottom-up control is the regulation of trophic components by their prey. Results show that biological production functions are highly dependent on predation parameters and vary differently according to trophic level. Fishing activity modifies the biomass distribution between components and strongly affects higher trophic levels more sensitive to exploitation. Trophic dynamics within the system are altered through the rates of predation mortality. In systems where predation mortality is high, top-down control dominates and fishing affects all food web components. These "fishing-controlled" systems display compensatory mechanisms through a released predation control. We also show that systems where productivity is dependent on prey abundance are more "environment-controlled" and seem more sensitive to overexploitation, particularly the higher trophic levels. Trophic Opportunism tends to dampen the propagation of top-down or bottom-up controls through the food web and thus stabilizes the ecosystem. Trophic relationships are therefore essential ecosystems characteristics that determine production and response to exploitation. Their routine analysis is a key part of the ecosystem approach.



1144) Recherche du mot : organisme (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/organism)


1145) Recherche du mot : Carita (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_maculatus)


1146) Recherche du mot : élément aquatique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/aquatic_element)


1147) Recherche du mot : Carite lusitánico (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_tritor)


1148) Recherche du mot : Pámpanos, palometónes nep (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/stromateidae)


1149) Recherche du mot : Ichtyofaune (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ichtyofauna)


1150) Recherche du mot : Victoria Harbour, Seychelles (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/victoriaHarbour)


1151) Recherche du mot : Crocodile shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/regalecus_spp)


1152) Recherche du mot : Argyropelecus sladeni (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/argyropelecus_sladeni)


1153) Recherche du mot : Ichtyofauna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ichtyofauna)


1154) Recherche du mot : biotic element (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/biotic_element)


1155) Recherche du mot : Ablennes hians (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ablennes_hians)


1156) Recherche du mot : Bounicou (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/katsuwonus_pelamis)


1157) Recherche du mot : Snake mackerels, escolars nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/gempylidae)


1158) Recherche du mot : Human activity (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/human_activity)


1159) Recherche du mot : SUBMARINE VALLEY (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/valley)


1160) Recherche du mot : mar de sergio (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mar_de_sergio)


1161) Recherche du mot : petrel... (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/procellaria_aequinoctialis)


1162) Recherche du mot : Listado (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/katsuwonus_pelamis)
1/1077: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabildelaflotadecercotropicaleneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Actualización de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil de la flota de cerco tropical en el océano Atlántico de 1980 a 2006.
En este documento se presenta una actualización del índice estandarizado de rabil adulto (>30 Kg.) de las flotas de cerco tropical en el océano Atlántico desde 1980 hasta 2006. Los datos utilizados provienen de los cuadernos de pesca por lance e información pormenorizada de la flota. La estandarización se ha realizado mediante modelos lineales generalizados (GLM) utilizando el método delta. De las estimaciones de los modelos glm se obtienen dos índices estandarizados: uno calculado a partir de las medias mínimo cuadráticas (LSMeans) y otro a partir de los promedios anuales de los valores ajustados. La variabilidad de este último es menor, por lo que, en este caso, es un índice más adecuado para su utilización en los modelos de evaluación. Como variables explicativas se han considerado el año, país, categoría, antigüedad del barco y la captura de listado, la otra especie objetivo de las flotas.



1163) Recherche du mot : Epinephelus morrhua (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/epinephelus_morrhua)


1164) Recherche du mot : Thazard cirrus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_lineolatus)


1165) Recherche du mot : Fishing effort (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fishing_effort)
1/1078: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelbasedassessmentofpersistenceinproposedmarineprotectedareadesigns> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Model-based assessment of persistence  in proposed marine protected area designs
Assessment of marine protected areas (MPAs) requires the ability to quantify
the effects of proposed MPA size and placement, habitat distribution, larval dispersal, and
fishing on the persistence of protected populations. Here we describe a model-based approach
to assessment of the contribution of a network of marine protected areas to the persistence of
populations with a sedentary adult phase and a dispersing larval phase. The model integrates
the effects of a patchy spatial distribution of habitat, the spatial scale of larval dispersal, and
the level of fishing outside of reserves into a calculation of the spatial distribution of
equilibrium settlement. We use the amount of coastline predicted to have equilibrium
settlement rates that saturate post-settlement habitat as a response variable for the assessment
and comparison of MPA network designs. We apply this model to a set of recently proposed
MPA networks for the central coast of California, USA. Results show that the area of habitat
set aside is a good predictor of the area over which population levels will be high for shortdistance
dispersers. However, persistence of longer distance dispersers depends critically on
the spatial distribution of habitat and reserves, ranging from not persistent anywhere to
persistent over a greater area than that set aside in reserves. These results depend on the
mechanisms of persistence, with self-replacement supporting short-distance dispersers and
network effects supporting long-distance dispersers. Persistence also depends critically on
fishery status outside the MPAs, as well as how fishing effort is redistributed after MPA
implementation. This assessment method provides important benchmarks, as well as a
transparent modeling approach, for improving initial MPA configurations that may result
from less-comprehensive rule- or habitat-based methods of designing MPAs.

2/1079: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/whythenumberofhooksperbaskethpbisnotagoodproxyindicatorofthemaximumfishingdepthindriftinglonglinefisheries> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Why the number of hooks per basket (HPB) is not a good proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth in drifting longline fisheries?
The effects of targeting in longline fisheries have major impacts on CPUE (catch per unit effort). To target large pelagic fishes in longline fisheries, fishermen deployed several tactics according to the target species. For a given species, the tactic depends on both the season and the fishing ground. One of major aims of the fishing tactic is to set the longline for optimizing the overlap between the distribution of hook depths and the supposed preferential vertical habitat of the target species. Thus, the maximum fishing depth (MFD) of the longline is recognized as a key parameter for estimating the distribution of hook depths and then to standardize fishing effort. In this context, the number of hooks per basket (HPB) is commonly used as a proxy indicator of MFD (this information has been collected for the Japanese longline fishery since 1975). Unfortunately HPB is not a good proxy indicator of MFD. In the first part of this work we illustrate why our previous affirmation is consistent from a theoretical point of view. Second, we analyse depth series recorded with time depth recorders (TRDs) at the deepest point of the mainline (data collected during instrumented longline experiments carried out in the French Polynesia EEZ, central South Pacific). We observe variations of depths recorded during the soak time and we compare the calculated mean depth of depth series with the theoretical MFD (catenary formula). The mean depth appears as the better proxy indicator of the MFD which can be used to estimate the distribution of hook depths. Finally, we discuss relevant data which must be collected by both observers and fishermen in order to improve analysis of the fishing effort in longline fisheries. These data are crucial to standardize appropriately longline CPUE and to correct for potential bias. Statistical models (even the most sophisticated, such as habitat based model, GLM, GAM, GLMM or neural networks) could not supplant for the lack of such input information.

3/1080: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimationofnominalfishingeffortoftropicaltunapurseseinersfromvmsdata> : SCORE = 3.2755096
Doc : Estimation of nominal fishing effort of tropical tuna purse seiners from VMS data


4/1081: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimatesofhistoricchangesintotalmortalityandselectivityforeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamisfromlengthcompositiondata> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Estimates of historic changes in total mortality and selectivity for  Eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) from length composition data
Catch-at-size data of the eastern Atlantic skipjack were used to estimate changes in total mortality from 1969 to 2007. We used a transitional model of mean length that generalized the Beverton-Holt mortality estimator to allow change in mortality rate under nonequilibrium conditions. Then, from homogeneous periods of time, length-converted catch curves were used to access qualitative changes in selectivity patterns for two surface fisheries (the baitboat fishery operating from Dakar, Senegal, and the European and associated purse seine fisheries). To explore the impact of catch on the mortality rate, a Bayesian change-point analysis was conducted on the catch time series to detect concomitant variation between mortality rates and catch. Finally, potential causes of these changes are discussed in relation to the implementation of new fishing technology, such fish aggregating devices (FAD). The general pattern depicted by total mortality is in agreement with previous knowledge on this fishery: a state of complete or practically complete exploitation during the nineties followed by the decrease in nominal purse seine fishing effort in the last decade, combined with the effect of a seasonal moratorium on FAD fishing operations. There was no evidence of a change in selectivity between the two contrasted periods of time considered: 1969-1979 and 1986-1999; the second period being characterized by the introduction of new technology onboard vessels. In contrast, the covariation over time between total catch and mortality rate three years later highlights the effect of the fishing pressure on the stock of eastern Atlantic skipjack.

5/1082: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicstructureoftheperuvianmarineecosystemininsightsontheeffectsofmanagementscenariosforthehakefisheryusingtheibmtrophicmodelosmose> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Trophic structure of the Peruvian marine ecosystem in 2000-2006 : insights on the effects of management scenarios for the hake fishery using the IBM trophic model Osmose
The individual-based trophic model Osmose is applied to the upwelling marine ecosystem off
the coast of Peru. The dynamics and life cycle of eight major species of the Peruvian marine
ecosystem are explicitly considered in the model. Reference simulations provide an overview of
the trophic structure of the Peruvian ecosystem during the period 2000–2006. Results of model
calibration and simulations are discussed in the light of current empirical knowledge on the
trophic functioning of the Peruvian ecosystem and are compared to outputs obtained recently
using the trophic model Ecopath.
The impacts on the ecosystem of restoration plans for the depleted hake (Merluccius gayi
peruanus) population are explored through two management scenarios: a) a long term
reduction of fishing effort targeting hake and b) a moratorium on the hake fishery. The
simulations help better understand the recent failure of a 20 month hake moratorium and
provide long-term strategic support to ecosystem-based management. Limits of our approach
are discussed and recommendations are detailed for future developments of the Osmose model
and ecosystem approach to fishery management in the Peruvian context.

6/1083: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statitiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileependantlaperiode> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Statitiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée pendant la période 1991-2006
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of the European and similar baitboat and
purse seine fleets7 from 1991 to 2006. The data in this document for 1991 to 2006 have been revised and
completed for 2005-2006. The species breakdown of the catches in 2006 is provisional and should be
subject to verification. The document gives information on the characteristics of the fleets (fishing type
by category, in number), fishing effort by type and size category of the vessels, the number of 1o areas
visited by the fleet per year during the period, the catches, standardized effort and the CPUEs by
species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as well as the catches by size classes per quarter for
each of the three species and for the two gears, and the average individual weights by species (by
quarter and by gear). Fishing maps are also provided indicating the deployment of the fleet in the
eastern Atlantic as well as the time-area breakdown of the catches of the European and similar purse
seiners in 2006, compared to the average of 2001-2005.

7/1084: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ayearclasscurveanalysistoestimatemortalityofatlanticbluefintunacaughtbythenorwegianfisheryfromto> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : A year-class curve analysis to estimate mortality of Atlantic bluefin tuna caught by the Norwegian fishery from 1956 to 1979
At the ICCAT symposium on bluefin tuna that held in Santander in April 2008, Tangen et al.(2009) presented a first quantification of the fishing effort deployed by the Norwegian fishery targeting bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea. Using a year-class curve analysis on the Norwegian CPUE, this document presents the first estimates of mortality rates of Atlantic bluefin tuna that migrated north from the mid-1950s to the late 1970s. The results indicate that bluefin tuna would have experienced a total mortality rate (Z) of 0.2 to 0.4 yr-1 (i.e. F at around 0.3 yr-1) during the late 1950s, 0.2 yr-1 during the 1960s and 0.1 yr-1 afterwards (assuming M=0.1 yr-1). These results appear to be rather robust and consistent with the VPA estimates from the 1970s and early 1980s, albeit slightly higher. The fishing mortality rates experienced by bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea during the period 1956-1979 were thus significant (so that local overfishing may have occurred, especially during the 1950s), but lower than F estimated by year-class curve analysis in recent years (i.e. 1992-2004). This comparison between two distant periods of time during which BFT was significantly (highly) exploited tend to confirm, with new pieces of information, the pessimistic conclusions of the 2006 stock assessment.

8/1085: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anattempttoevaluatetherecentmanagementregulationsoftheeastatlanticandmediterraneanbluefintunastockthroughasimplesimulationmodel> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : An attempt to evaluate the recent management regulations of the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock through a simple simulation model
This manuscript proposes a simple simulation model to investigate the implications to the resources of the
recent management regulations adopted for the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock. If
perfectly implemented, the new regulations on minimum size and closed fishing areas mostly lead to a
change in the selectivity pattern which moves towards older fish, so decreasing growth-overfishing. The
potential sustainable yields therefore considerably increase (almost double in comparison to those that
would be obtained without the new regulations) while the SSB can rapidly reach 20% of the virgin SSB. An
error of 20% in the implementation of these new regulations affects their efficiencies and does not seem to
allow the rebuilding of the SSB at a safe level. A significant increase in fishing mortality on older fish (ages
5+), due to the partial redeployment of the fisheries, affect even more strongly the rebuilding of the SSB. In
conclusion, the new regulations may appear sufficient to rebuild the SSB to a level > 20% of the virgin SSB,
if (and only if) they are perfectly implemented and don't generate any increase in the fishing effort on older
fish. In other words, control over all the fisheries that target BFT in the East Atlantic and the Mediterranean
is probably the key of the edifice.

9/1086: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleexploitationofamajortunaconcentrationintheindianocean> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Mesoscale exploitation of a major tuna concentration in the Indian Ocean
The paper analyzes the daily catch, fishing effort and fish size data of the purse seine fleet fishing in the
western Indian Ocean in February 2005, when a major concentration of tuna occurred and was heavily exploited by
this surface fishery. This tuna concentration event occurred over a period of just 12 days, in an area of about 3500
square nautical miles located to the west of the Seychelles. This small stratum produced a total catch of 22 000 t,
corresponding to 6.5% of the total fishing mortality of all adult yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) in the entire Indian
Ocean in 2005. Sets were made mainly on free schools and the catch mainly composed of large yellowfin tuna. The
average CPUE and the average catch per set were very large, 65 t and 85 t per fishing day, respectively. This “event” took
place in a precise area where a high concentration of chlorophyll had been localized 18 days before. The subsequent
concentration of tuna schools probably arose due to the high densities of their prey feeding on this large phytoplankton
biomass. This phytoplankton bloom was observed at the edge of an anticyclonic eddy, but its origin and its high density
cannot be fully explained by available environmental data. The adult yellowfin were probably at a reproductive stage
and actively feeding on the local food chain generated by the phytoplankton bloom. Such an event is extreme, but
typical of tuna purse seine fisheries where fleets often search for such tuna patches. These events play an important role
in tuna fisheries due to the increase in fishing effort and fishing efficiency of purses seiners, both of which increase their
impact on the resource. The fine scale study of such events and their improved integration into tuna stock assessments
is recommended.

10/1087: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethonierefrancaisedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière française durant la période 1991- 2006
This document presents a statistical summary of the fleet activity of the French baitboats and purse
seiners from 1991 to 2006. The historical data for the FIS6 fleet from 1969 to 1990 was described in a
previous document (Diouf et Fonteneau 1997). The data from that document have been revised and
completed for 2006. The document gives information on the fleet characteristics (fishing type by
category, in number), fishing effort by type and size category of the vessels, the number of 1o areas
visited by the fleet per year during the period, the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for
the baitboats and purse seiners, as well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three
species and for the two gears, and the average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear).
The species breakdown of the catches in 2006 is provisional and should be subject to verification. Some
fishing maps area also presented indicating the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic, as well as the
time-area breakdown of the French baitboat and purse seine catches in 2006, as compared to the
average of 2001-2005.

11/1088: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/useandlimitsofthreemethodsforassessingfishsizespectraandfishabundanceintwotropicalmanmadelakes> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Use and limits of three methods for assessing fish size spectra and fish abundance in two tropical man-made lakes
A comparative study, combining three different assessment methods (fish gillnet sampling, artisanal fisheries surveys and hydroacoustics) was conducted in Mali where two man-made reservoirs (Sélingué and Manantali) are particularly suited for investigating the impact of fishing effort on the fish assemblage. These two ecosystems have relatively similar areas, edaphic and environmental properties but are subjected to different levels of fishing exploitation (low at Manantali, high at Sélingué). The comparison is based on two indicator parameters: the abundance indices and the size spectra distributions, obtained by the three methods at two contrasting hydrological seasons (April and October). The results were compared first between the two seasons, and then between the two lakes. The present work is based on two main hypotheses: (1) that there is a higher fish abundance in October associated with smaller overall sizes, after spawning; (2) a lower abundance and smaller sizes in the Sélingué reservoir than in Manantali, because of the much higher fishing pressure in Sélingué. The relevance of each method to the selected indicators is discussed. On the one hand, the three methodologies on the whole gave similar conclusions and they also complement each other. On the other hand, some results do not match the hypotheses because of biases due to difficulties and technical limitations of each method in such ecosystems (shallow water with vegetation and stumps of former forests).

12/1089: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteuponthehistoricalstandardisedfishingeffortsinthefisandfrenchpurseseinetaskstatisticsthathavebeenroutinelysubmittedtotheiccatsecretariatduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Note upon the historical standardised fishing efforts in the FIS and French purse seine task2 statistics that have been routinely submitted to the ICCAT secretariat during the 1969-2005 period
This paper examine the types of fishing efforts that have been submitted since 1969 to the
ICCAT Secretariat for the French fleet of purse seiners, as well for the Senegalese, Ivorian and
Moroccan purse seiners. This analyzes confirms that the effort data submitted to the ICCAT
during the period 1969 to now are heterogeneous over time. This document explains why the
fishing efforts of the 1969-1979 period cannot be modified or corrected or re-estimated. It also
recommends that all fishing efforts since 1980 should be well normalized and resubmitted to the
ICCAT, and using various units of fishing effort. Various potential types of fishing efforts that
could be used for this revision of the historical Task 2 statistics are presented and submitted to
the ICCAT Tropical Tunas Species Group before doing this revision. The historical
stratification between small and large purse seiners should be kept. The document also
analyzes the statistical problems linked to the mixture of four flags in the historical so called
FISM fleet. The recommendation is that all task1 and task2 purse seine statistics at least since
1980 and possibly since 1969 should preferably be broken into the corresponding catch and
effort statistics of each flag.

13/1090: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofyellowfinthunnusalbacarestunastocksfisheriesandstockstatusworldwide> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : An overview of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) tuna stocks, fisheries and stock status worldwide
This paper makes a comparison of yellowfin
stocks worldwide, taking into account the biology of the
species as estimated in each ocean and the changes and
trends in the yellowfin fisheries observed in each ocean. This
paper presents and discusses a wide range of data and
figures comparing yellowfin stocks and fisheries in the four
« oceans », namely the Atlantic, Indian, Eastern and Western
Pacific. It shows an overview of the changes observed in each
ocean for the main yellowfin fisheries, longliners and purse
seiners: sizes of area fished, CPUE, changes in size
distribution and average weights, etc. The major biological
parameters estimated in each ocean by scientists, such as
natural mortality at age, spawning, sex ratio and growth are
presented and discussed. The methods used to assess
yellowfin stocks and the methodological uncertainties in the
yellowfin stock assessment are compared and discussed. The
conclusion is that it remains difficult to fully understand if the
increased catches of yellowfin observed world wide in most
oceans should be explained (1) by the effects of increasing
fishing zones, (2) by increased fishing effort and/or increased
fishing efficiency (3) and/or by increased biological productivity
of oceans or by a combination of these parameters. The
serious uncertainty in the understanding of the real
relationship between the longline and purse seine fisheries are
also discussed.

14/1091: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/esessioniotc> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : 8e session IOTC
The number of hooks between floats (HBF) is classically considered in standardization studies of the longline fishing effort as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. The explanation of this choice is easy for understanding : an increase of the HBF (then an increase of the length of the mainline between floats represents a increase in fishing depths. Probably, this relationship has been valid for traditional longlines until the end of eighties. However, the modernization of the fishing gear (monofilament mainline, shooter, snaps) has considerably modified the tradition and has led to a wide diversification of setting tactics. As a related consequence of this modernization, HBF has lost his property as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. In this work, we show briefly why the relationship between HPB and the maximum fishing depth is artificial. This hypothesis is supported from a comparative analysis of temporal series of the average HBF and the weight contribution of albacore and bigeye in catches. This fact underlines the problem of the use of HBF in the frame of the measure of the effective fishing effort in longline fisheries (GLM approach). In this context, the necessity of additional information characterizing longlining strategies is discussed.

15/1092: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deepseaconferenceonthegovernanceandmanagementofdeepseafisheries> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Deep Sea 2003: Conference on the Governance and Management of Deep-sea Fisheries
INTRODUCTION: 
The growing capacity of fishermen to repeat fishing operations at some known locations thanks to, for instance, precise maps of past activity and global positioning systems (GPS), is becoming more apparent as fine-scale information on fishing activities becomes available. Aggregated declarations at the level of statistical square levels hides the fine-scale information and the possibility to analyze small-scale fishing strategies. When available, information on fishing effort such as observers' declarations or vessel monitoring system (VMS) reports may indicate that the tendency of specific-area repeat fishing is sometimes frequent (Rijnsdorp, van Mourik Broekman and Visser 2000). In this paper, we are concerned by the fact that small-scale fishing tactics may interfere in the relation between commercial catch per unit effort (CPUE) and indices of abundance and potentially reduce the relevancy of mean CPUE for resource analysis purposes. The relationship between CPUE and abundance can be biased (e.g. Hillborn and Walters 1987, Rahikainen and Kuikka 2002) as it is the product of several processes such as schooling behaviour of fish, variation in catchability, interactions between fishing vessels and spatial distribution of fishing effort.

In this paper, we consider the trawl fishery for Patagonian toothfish (Dissostichus eleginoides) off Kerguelen Islands in the Indian sector of the Southern Ocean. In spite of difficult conditions of exploitation, the fishery increased until the end of the 1990s. The fishery can be characterized in the context of this paper by the fact that (a) it is mono-specific - toothfish alone is caught, (b) fishermen do a lot of repetitive tows and (c), management rules changed a few years after the fishery started, switching from global to individual quotas. Making use of the spatio-temporal distribution of tows, Bez, De Oliveira and Duhamel (in press) showed that a mean depletion effect of 5 to 10 percent per tow exists under repetitive fishing for toothfish. This local depletion is stronger for icefish (Champsocephalus gunnari) and grey rockcod (Lepidonotothen squamifrons). However these local depletion effects are weak and the fluctuations observed around the decreasing trends can be attributed to changes in the fishing efficiencies from one tow to the next. The objective of this paper is to use the repetitive fishing to estimate fishing efficiency distributions and to interpret their changes with regards to the change in regulations.

Here, "local fishing efficiency" measures the capacity of a unit of effort to catch fish effectively accessible to fishing (Gascuel 1993). As with all components of catchability, the local fishing efficiency should be estimated with CPUEs based on the same underlying fish abundance, which is never possible. Robson (1966) circumvented this difficulty by assuming homogeneity of fish density over quadrats. Laurec (1977) used geostatistical tools to account for the differences between two CPUEs when using them. Here, we use the territorial behaviour of toothfish and the existence of a series of repetitive fishing to build ratios of consecutive CPUEs to estimate fishing efficiency probability distributions.

16/1093: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethonierefisdurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière FIS durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary of FIS6 baitboat and purse seine fleet activities
from 1991 to 2004. The historical data from 1969 to 1990 were described in a previous
document (Diouf and Fonteneau 1997). The data collected from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2004. The document provides indications regarding fleet
characteristics (type of gear by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category of
the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for baitboats and purse seiners, as well as
the catches by different size classes by quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, and the average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic, as well as the time-area
breakdown of French purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average situation of 1999-
2004.

17/1094: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of European and assimilated6
baitboat and purse seine fleets from 1991 to 2004. The data from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2003. The document provides information regarding fleet
characteristics (type of fishing by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category
of the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as
well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, as well as average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic as well as the time-area
breakdown of European and assimilated purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average
situation of 1999-2003.

18/1095: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of European and assimilated6
baitboat and purse seine fleets from 1991 to 2004. The data from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2003. The document provides information regarding fleet
characteristics (type of fishing by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category
of the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as
well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, as well as average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic as well as the time-area
breakdown of European and assimilated purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average
situation of 1999-2003.



1166) Recherche du mot : tortue verte (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/chelonia_mydas)


1167) Recherche du mot : Humboldt ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/humboldt_ecosystem)
1/1096: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/functionalgroupbiodiversityineasternboundaryupwellingecosystemsquestionsthewaspwaisttrophicstructure> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Functional group biodiversity in Eastern Boundary Upwelling Ecosystems questions the wasp-waist trophic structure
The species diversity of the four major Eastern Boundary Upwelling Ecosystems (EBUEs) is studied and compared with the aim of better understanding their functioning. Functional groups (FGs) of organisms were defined according to their taxonomy, body size and trophic level (TL), and span from plankton to top predators. Four large sub-divisions are defined in each system: two latitudinal sub-divisions (north and south) and two zonal sub-divisions (inshore and offshore), resulting in four sub-ecosystems per EBUE. A semi-quantitative approach is used in which only the dominant species (contributing 90% of overall biomass) are considered. EBUEs are compared in regard to their species composition, dominant species richness and evenness within FGs. The data are interpreted, focusing on latitudinal, zonal and depth gradients of diversity. Trophic flows (inflow and outflow) through the small pelagic fish FG are derived from different Ecopath models. This analysis of the four ecosystems and their sub-divisions does not provide support for the expected wasp-waist food web structure and functioning, with a single or several species of small pelagic fish primarily channelling the energy flow from lower to higher TL. Instead, similar low levels of richness were observed in many FGs of intermediate TL, allowing several energy transfer pathways. The gamma diversity is high due to the geographical distance between EBUEs and the presence or absence of rivers, but not to differences in their latitudinal position. The beta diversity is also high, due to the same factors plus the variation in shelf width and the contrast between inshore and offshore sub-divisions. The differences in richness and evenness among EBUEs are minor and do not explain the higher secondary and tertiary productivity of the Humboldt ecosystem.

2/1097: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anchovyengraulisringensandsardinesardinopssagaxspatialdynamicsandaggregationpatternsinthehumboldtcurrentecosystemperufrom> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Anchovy (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) spatial dynamics and aggregation patterns in the Humboldt Current ecosystem, Peru, from 1983-2003
Three indexes of spatial aggregation are developed and used to examine the aggregation pattern of sardine (Sardinops sagax) and anchovy (Engraulis ringens) in the Peruvian Humboldt Current System, determined from 36 acoustic surveys conducted from 1983 through 2003 by the Peruvian Marine Institute (IMARPE). Each index assesses a different aspect of aggregation: the concentration, the percent occupancy of space and the clustering of high-fish abundance. Both time-series correlation and tree-based clustering-regression method, classification and regression trees (CART), were used to relate each of the indexes to environmental variables (season, temperature anomaly and year). Additionally, a measure of onshore-offshore distribution, the average distance from the coast, and abundance variables (the average acoustic backscatter per occupied sampling unit, and the acoustically estimated total abundance of sardine and anchovy from IMARPE) were related to environmental factors by using CART. We show that the 1983-2003 time series can be divided into three different periods: with shifts in 1992 and in 1997-98. Sardine and anchovy showed large differences in both abundance and aggregation among these periods. Although upwelling ecosystems support dramatic and sudden changes in environmental conditions, fish responses are sometimes smoother than usually suggested and there are transition periods with concomitant high biomasses of anchovy and sardine, but with different spatial aggregation patterns. Observed relationships between environmental proxies and aggregation patterns support the habitat-based hypothesis that environmentally mediated alterations in range lead to population changes.

3/1098: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/enrichmentconcentrationandretentionprocessesinrelationtoanchovyengraulisringenseggsandlarvaedistributionsinthenorthernhumboldtupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Enrichment, concentration and retention processes in relation to anchovy (Engraulis ringens) eggs and larvae distributions in the northern Humboldt upwelling ecosystem
A Lagrangian model is used to simulate and quantify in the northern Humboldt upwelling ecosystem the processes of enrichment, concentration and retention, identified by Bakun [Bakun, A., 1996. Patterns in the ocean. Ocean processes and marine population (sic). University of California Sea Grant, California, USA, in cooperation with Centro de Investigaciones Biologicas de Noroeste, (sic) California Sur, Mexico, 323 pp.] as being important for the survival and recruitment of early life stages of pelagic fish. The method relies on tracking the positions of particles within water velocity fields generated by a three-dimensional hydrodynamic model. Simple criteria for considering particles as participating to enrichment, concentration or retention are used to derive indices of the three processes. We analyse the spatial distribution of and seasonal variability in these indices. The results are discussed in relation to anchovy (Engraulis ringens) eggs and larvae distributions off Peru, and to a comparable study conducted in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem.

4/1099: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystempartiielucidatingecosystemdynamicsfromtowithafocusontheimpactofenso> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part II: Elucidating ecosystem dynamics from 1995 to 2004 with a focus on the impact of ENSO
The Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem is one of the most productive in the world in terms of fish production. Its location near to the equator permits strong upwelling under relatively low winds, thus creating optimal conditions for the development of plankton communities. These communities ultimately support abundant populations of grazing fish such as the Peruvian anchoveta, Engraulis ringens. The ecosystem is also subject to strong inter-annual environmental variability associated with the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO), which has major effects on nutrient structure, primary production, and higher trophic levels. Here our objective is to model the contributions of several external drivers (i.e. reconstructed phytoplankton changes, fish immigration, and fishing rate) and internal control mechanisms (i.e. predator-prey) to ecosystem dynamics over an ENSO cycle. Steady-state models and timeseries data from the Instituto del Mar del Perú (IMARPE) from 1995 to 2004 provide the base data for simulations conducted with the program Ecopath with Ecosim. In simulations all three external drivers contribute to ecosystem dynamics. Changes in phytoplankton quantity and composition (i.e. contribution of diatoms and dino- and silicoflagellates), as affected by upwelling intensity, were important in dynamics of the El Niño of 1997–98 and the subsequent 3 years. The expansion and immigration of mesopelagic fish populations during El Niño was important for dynamics in following years. Fishing rate changes were the most important of the three external drivers tested, helping to explain observed dynamics throughout the modeled period, and particularly during the post-El Niño period. Internal control settings show a mix of predator–prey control settings; however a ‘‘wasp-waist” control of the ecosystem by small pelagic fish is not supported.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

5/1100: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystemparticomparingtrophiclinkagesunderlaninaandelninoconditions> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part I: Comparing trophic linkages under La Niña and El Niño conditions
The El Niño of 1997–98 was one of the strongest warming events of the past century; among many other effects, it impacted phytoplankton along the Peruvian coast by changing species composition and reducing biomass. While responses of the main fish resources to this natural perturbation are relatively well known, understanding the ecosystem response as a whole requires an ecotrophic multispecies approach. In this work, we construct trophic models of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem (NHCE) and compare the La Niña (LN) years in 1995–96 with the El Niño (EN) years in 1997–98. The model area extends from 4°S–16°S and to 60 nm from the coast. The model consists of 32 functional groups of organisms and differs from previous trophic models of the Peruvian system through: (i) division of plankton into size classes to account for EN-associated changes and feeding preferences of small pelagic fish, (ii) increased division of demersal groups and separation of life history stages of hake, (iii) inclusion of mesopelagic fish, and (iv) incorporation of the jumbo squid (Dosidicus gigas), which became abundant following EN. Results show that EN reduced the size and organization of energy flows of the NHCE, but the overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators, detritus and export) of the ecosystem was maintained. The reduction of diatom biomass during EN forced omnivorous planktivorous fish to switch to a more zooplankton-dominated diet, raising their trophic level. Consequently, in the EN model the trophic level increased for several predatory groups (mackerel, other large pelagics, sea birds, pinnipeds) and for fishery catch. A high modeled biomass of macrozooplankton was needed to balance the consumption by planktivores, especially during EN condition when observed diatoms biomass diminished dramatically. Despite overall lower planktivorous fish catches, the higher primary production required-to-catch ratio implied a stronger ecological impact of the fishery and stresses the need for precautionary management of fisheries during and after EN. During EN energetic indicators such as the lower primary production/total biomass ratio suggest a more energetically efficient ecosystem, while reduced network indicators such as the cycling index and relative ascendency indicate of a less organized state of the ecosystem. Compared to previous trophic models of the NHCE we observed: (i) a shrinking of ecosystem size in term of energy flows, (ii) slight changes in overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators and detritus), and (iii) the use of alternate pathways leading to a higher ecological impact of the fishery for planktivorous fish.



1168) Recherche du mot : Thon mignon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_tonggol)


1169) Recherche du mot : Marlín trompa corta (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_angustirostris)


1170) Recherche du mot : L'écosystème marin exploité de Guinée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/guinea_ecosystem)


1171) Recherche du mot : Lagocephalus spadiceus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lagocephalus_spadiceus)


1172) Recherche du mot : Sea Surface Temperature (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sst)
1/1101: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparisonoflightandsstbasedgeolocationwithsatellitetelemetryinfreerangingalbatrosses> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : Comparison of light- and SST-based geolocation with satellite telemetry in free-ranging albatrosses
Light-based archival tags are increasingly being used on free-ranging marine vertebrates to study their movements using geolocation estimates. These methods use algorithms that incorporate threshold light techniques to determine longitude and latitude. More recently, researchers have begun using sea surface temperature (SST) to determine latitude in temperate regions. The accuracy and application of these algorithms have not been validated on free-ranging birds. Errors in both geolocation methods were quantified by double-tagging Laysan (Phoebastria immutabilis Rothschild) and black-footed (P. nigripes Audubon) albatrosses with both leg-mounted archival tags that measured SST and ambient light, and satellite transmitters. Laysan albatrosses were captured and released from breeding colonies on Tern Island, northwestern Hawaiian Islands (23°52′N, 166°17′W) and Guadalupe Island, Mexico (28°31′N, 118°10′W) and black-footed albatrosses from Tern Island. Studies were carried out between December 2002 and March 2003. For all birds combined, the mean ± SD great circle (GC) distance between light-based locations and satellite-derived locations was 400±298 km (n=131). Errors in geolocation positions were reduced to 202±171 km (n=154) when light-based longitude and SST-based latitude (i.e. SST/light) were used to establish locations. The SST/light method produced comparable results for two Laysan albatross populations that traveled within distinctly different oceanic regions (open ocean vs more coastal) whereas light-based methods produced greater errors in the coastal population. Archival tags deployed on black-footed albatrosses returned a significantly higher proportion of lower-quality locations, which was attributed to interference of the light sensor on the tag. Overall, the results demonstrate that combining measures of light-based longitude and SST-based latitude significantly reduces the error in location estimates for albatrosses and can provide valid latitude estimates during the equinoxes, when light-based latitude measurements are indeterminate.

2/1102: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hawaiianalbatrossestrackinterannualvariabilityofmarinehabitatsinthenorthpacific> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : Hawaiian albatrosses track interannual variability of marine habitats in the North Pacific
We studied the foraging behavior and marine habitats used by Laysan (Phoebastria immutabilis) and black-footed (P. nigripes) albatrosses, during four consecutive breeding seasons to investigate whether these marine predators changed habitat preferences, foraging distributions, or both, in accordance with natural interannual variability in the marine environment. We used satellite telemetry to track a total of 37 Laysan and 36 black-footed albatrosses during the incubation periods of 2002-03, 2003-04, 2004-05, and 2005-06 at Tern Island, Northwest Hawaiian Islands. First passage time analysis was used to determine search effort of individual albatrosses along their respective tracks, and this metric was then related to oceanographic habitat variables using linear mixed-effects regression. The majority of individuals traveled to pelagic waters of the North Pacific, with Laysan albatrosses demonstrating a more northwesterly distribution from the breeding colony. Laysan albatrosses traveled further, for longer periods, and demonstrated greater interannual variability in trip characteristics than black-footed albatrosses. For Laysan albatrosses only, maximum distance reached was negatively correlated with body mass change during foraging and overall breeding success. There was considerable interspecific segregation of foraging habitats, and low overlap of foraging distributions between years. For all years, and both species, sea surface temperature was consistently the most important environmental variable predicting search effort of albatrosses, suggesting that both species use similar environmental cues when searching for prey. In the context of climate variability, our results suggest that Hawaiian albatrosses demonstrate flexibility in foraging strategies and track preferred marine habitats. However, adjusting foraging behavior to climatic variability may have energetic, and subsequent demographic consequences for them.

3/1103: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trendsinprimaryproductionseasurfacetemperatureandwindinupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 1.7371014
Doc : Trends in primary production, sea surface temperature and wind in upwelling systems (1998-2007)
We take advantage of the longest high quality single-sensor global data set of ocean color available today to explore recent trends in the primary productivity of the main eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUEs): California, Canary, Humboldt and Benguela. The chlorophyll-a concentration is used as a proxy for primary production. SST data from AVHRR and wind speed data from QuikSCAT are used in conjunction with this data set to analyse forcing mechanisms explaining the chlorophyll biomass.
Whereas the worldwide primary-production biomass shows on average decreasing trends, as already observed in the stratified part of the worldwide ocean, the productivity of most EBUEs increases during the study period. These contrasting trends are both significant, at least for the mid latitude range of 50°S-50°N, where the data coverage is sufficient for accurate estimation.
Probably due to the large scale atmospheric forcing, trends in sea surface temperature (SST) show non-significant relationships with the trends in biomass within upwelling systems, suggesting that SST anomalies cannot be used as an indicator of change in upwelling intensity in a continuous warming context. On the other hand, upwelling favourable equatorward winds show a significant correlation with the observed trends in biomass, suggesting that the trends in the trade winds are probably linked to an increase in the intensity of the Hadley cell circulation observed during the last several decades.

4/1104: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/cireneairseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : Cirene: Air—Sea Interactions in the Seychelles—Chagos Thermocline Ridge Region
The Vasco—Cirene program ex-plores how strong air—sea inter-actions promoted by the shallow thermocline and high sea surface temperature in the Seychelles—Chagos thermocline ridge results in marked variability at synoptic, intraseasonal, and interannual time scales. The Cirene oceano-graphic cruise collected oceanic, atmospheric, and air—sea flux observations in this region in Jan-uary—February 2007. The contem-poraneous Vasco field experiment complemented these measure-ments with balloon deployments from the Seychelles. Cirene also contributed to the development of the Indian Ocean observing system via deployment of a moor-ing and 12 Argo profilers.Unusual conditions prevailed in the Indian Ocean during Janu-ary and February 2007, following the Indian Ocean dipole climate anomaly of late 2006. Cirene measurements show that the Seychelles—Chagos thermocline ridge had higher-than-usual heat content with subsurface anomalies up to 7°C. The ocean surface was warmer and fresher than average, and unusual eastward currents prevailed down to 800 m. These anomalous conditions had a major impact on tuna fishing in early 2007. Our dataset also sampled the genesis and maturation of Tropical Cyclone Dora, including high surface temperatures and a strong diurnal cycle before the cyclone, followed by a 1.5°C cool-ing over 10 days. Balloonborne instruments sampled the surface and boundary layer dynamics of Dora. We observed small-scale structures like dry-air layers in the atmosphere and diurnal warm layers in the near-surface ocean. The Cirene data will quantify the impact of these finescale features on the upper-ocean heat budget and atmospheric deep convection.

5/1105: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/patternsofvariabilityofseasurfacechlorophyllinthemozambiquechannelaquantitativeapproach> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : Patterns of variability of sea surface chlorophyll in the Mozambique Channel:A quantitative approach
We analyse the coupling between sea surface chlorophyll concentration (CC) and the physical environment in the Mozambique Channel (MZC) using statistical models. Seasonal and interannual patterns are studied along with the role of mesoscale dynamics on enhancement and concentration processes for phytoplankton. We use SeaWifs data for CC and two other remotely sensed data sets, TMMI for sea surface temperature (SST) and merged altimetry products for sea level anomaly and geostrophic current. Empirical Orthogonal Functions (EOF) on SSC and SST show strong seasonality and partition the MZC into three distinct sub-areas. The chlorophyll variability is mostly driven by seasonality, but more in the North (10°S–16°S) and South (24°S–30°S), and explains respectively 64% and 82% of the CC variance. In the Central part (16°S–24°S), the seasonal signal has less influence (60% variance). There, complex EOFs on Sea Level Anomaly (SLA) highlight the role of mesoscale activity (i.e. eddies and filament structures) in the spatial distribution of chlorophyll. Five mesoscale descriptors (shear, stretch, vorticity, deformation and eddy kinetic energy) are derived from the altimetry data to quantify the eddies-related physical patterns in the central region of the MZC. We use generalized Additive Models to explain the effect of those features on phytoplankton enhancement. The best model fit (r2=0.73) includes shear, stretch, vorticity and the latitude-longitude interaction as eddies are well structured in space. Cyclonic eddies associated with negative vorticity are conductive to phytoplankton enhancement by the effect of upwelling in the core notably during the spin-up phase. The interaction between eddies generate strong frontal mixing favourable to the production and aggregation of organic matter. The mesoscale activity is also affected by interannual variability with consequences on CC. We highlight a substantial reduction of the SLA pattern in 2000–2001 when the SOI positive phase is peaking (Nina-type pattern). The strong relationship between mesoscale eddies and SOI suggests that primary productivity in the MZC is also under the influence of distant forcing at a basin scale.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

6/1106: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingandcomparingthespawninghabitatsofanchovyengraulisencrasicolusandsardinesardinopssagaxinthesouthernbenguelaupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 1.0747766
Doc : Characterizing and comparing the spawning habitats of anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem
The spawning habitats of anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus and sardine Sardinops sagax in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem were characterised by comparing their egg abundances with environmental variables measured concomitantly during two different survey programmes: the South African Sardine and Anchovy Recruitment Programme (SARP), which comprised monthly surveys conducted during the austral summers of 1993/94 and 1994/95; and annual pelagic spawner biomass surveys conducted in early summer (November/December) from 1984 to 1999. Eggs were collected using a CalVET net. Physical variables measured included sea surface temperature (SST), surface salinity, water depth, mixed-layer depth, and current and wind speeds; biological variables measured included phytoplankton biomass, and zooplankton biomass and production. Spawning habitat was identified by construction of quotient curves derived from egg abundance data and individual environmental variables, and relationships between these variables were determined using multivariate co-inertia analysis. SARP data showed that anchovy spawning was associated with cool water and moderate wind and current speeds, whereas sardine spawning was related to warmer water and more turbulent and unstable conditions (i.e. high wind speeds and strong currents) than for anchovy. SARP data also showed significant differences in selection of spawning habitat of the two species for all environmental variables. The relationship between anchovy egg abundance and salinity was strongly positive, but strongly negative with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. Sardine egg abundance was strongly positively related to current speed. The spawner biomass survey data demonstrated that the spawning habitat of anchovy was characterised by warm water and high salinity, whereas sardine spawning was associated with cool water and low salinity. The survey data showed significant differences in spawning habitat selection by anchovy and sardine for SST, salinity and zooplankton biomass, but not for the other environmental variables. There was a positive relationship between anchovy egg abundance and SST, salinity and mixed-layer depth, and a negative relationship with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. For sardine there was a strong positive relationship between egg abundance and current speed and wind speed. Differences in the results between the two survey programmes could be attributable to differences in their spatio-temporal coverage. Spawning habitats of anchovy and sardine appear to be substantially different, with anchovy being more specific than sardine in their preference of various environmental conditions.

7/1107: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/decadalenvironmentalandecologicalchangesinthecanarycurrentlargemarineecosystemandadjacentwaterspatternsofconnectionsandteleconnection> : SCORE = 1.7371014
Doc : Decadal environmental and ecological changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem and adjacent waters : Patterns of connections and teleconnection
In order to explore decadal changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem (LME), wind and SST data collected by merchant ships are extracted from the Comprehensive Ocean Atmosphere Data Set (COADS) database from 1950 to 1995 within sixteen boxes along the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from 10°N up to 43°N.  Potential biases are reviewed and discussed when considering long-term changes and large spatial resolution. The heterogeneity of the seasonal patterns in the Canary current is described.  Decadal environmental changes are explored using Sea Surface Temperature (SST) data.  In the early and mid-1970s, an intensive cooling had a large latitudinal extension that affected the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from Spain to Senegal.  This cooling period was followed by a warming period, which started in the 1980s. Fisheries, fish stock abundance as well as fish population distributions have drastically changed during the last five decades. The sardine populations off Morocco widely fluctuated in a disconnected manner and a substantial increase in biomass was observed in fishing zone C (located between 20°N and 27°N) during the mid-1970s and mid-1980s. Several outbursts of fish populations (Micromesistius poutassou, Macrorhamphosus scolopax and M. gracilis, Octopus vulgaris, Balistes carolinensis) were observed during the last three decades in the Canary Current. In the case of the latter species it was connected with the outburst populations which took place in the Gulf of Guinea LME.  Upwelling intensity and sea surface temperature are strongly linked and are thought to affect both spatial distribution and abundance of fish in the Canary Current LME.  Ecosystems appear to be connected at very large scales through climatic teleconnection between the Northern and Central Atlantic but also between the Pacific and the Atlantic as the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index and the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events seem to have a major impact on the dynamics of the upwelling in the Canary Current.

8/1108: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/zooplanktonandforagefishspeciesoffperulargescalebottomupforcingandlocalscaledepletion> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : Zooplankton and forage fish species off Peru: large-scale bottom-up forcing and local-scale depletion
The Humboldt Current System, like all upwelling systems, has dramatic quantities of plankton-feeding fish, which suggested that their population dynamics may ‘drive' or ‘control' ecosystem dynamics. With this in mind we analysed the relationship between forage fish populations and their main prey, zooplankton populations. Our study combined a zooplankton sampling program (1961–2005) with simultaneous acoustic observations on fish from 40 pelagic surveys (1983–2005) conducted by the Peruvian Marine Research Institute (IMARPE) and landing statistics for anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) along the Peruvian coast from 1961 to 2005. The multi-year trend of anchoveta population abundance varied consistently with zooplankton biovolume trend, suggesting bottom-up control on anchovy at the population scale (since oceanographic conditions and phytoplankton production support the changes in zooplankton abundance). For a finer-scale analysis (km) we statistically modelled zooplankton biovolume as a function of geographical (latitude and distance from the 200-m isobath), environmental (sea surface temperature), temporal (year, month and time-of-day) and biological (acoustic anchovy and sardine biomass within 5 km of each zooplankton sample) covariates over all survey using both classification and regression trees (CART) and generalized additive models (GAM). CART showed local anchoveta density to have the strongest effect on zooplankton biovolume, with significantly reduced levels of biovolume for higher neighbourhood anchoveta biomass. Additionally, zooplankton biovolume was higher offshore than on the shelf. GAM results corroborated the CART findings, also showing a clear diel effect on zooplankton biovolume, probably due to diel migration or daytime net avoidance. Apparently, the observed multi-year population scale bottom-up control is not inconsistent with local depletion of zooplankton when anchoveta are locally abundant, since the latter effect was observed over a wide range of overall anchoveta abundance.

9/1109: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/eggandlarvaedistributionofsevenfishspeciesinthenortheastwaters> : SCORE = 1.8424742
Doc : Egg and larvae distribution of seven fish species in the north-east waters
The distribution of egg and larvae of mackerel, horse mackerel, sardine, hake, megrim, blue whiting and anchovy along the European Atlantic waters (south Portugal to Scotland) during 1998 is described. Time of the year, sea surface temperature and bottom depth are used to define the spawning habitat of the different species. Mackerel, horse mackerel, and sardine eggs and larvae presented the widest distribution, whereas megrim and anchovy showed a limited distribution, restricted to the Celtic Sea and the Bay of Biscay respectively. Correspondingly mackerel, horse mackerel and sardine showed the highest aggregation indices. Blue whiting larvae were found at the lowest temperatures, whereas anchovy eggs and larvae were found in the warmest waters. The analysis is a basis for evaluation of ongoing changes in the pelagic ecosystem of the north-east Atlantic.

10/1110: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingforecastingandscenariosincomparableupwellingecosystemscaliforniacanaryandhumboldt> : SCORE = 0.9212371
Doc : Modelling, forecasting and scenarios in comparable upwelling ecosystems: California, Canary and Humboldt
The three eastern boundary ecosystems comparable to the Benguela ecosystem (BCE)
display differences and commonalities. The California (CalCE) and Humboldt Current
(HCE) ecosystems are continuous topographically, whereas the Canary Current
ecosystem (CanCE) is interrupted by the Gulf of Cadiz and the Canaries archipelago.
All have similar regimes of equatorward flow over shelf and slope associated with
upwelling and a subsurface poleward flow over the slope, though in the HCE multiple
flows and counter-flows appear offshore. All systems exhibit year round upwelling in
their centre and seasonal upwelling at their extremes as the trade wind systems that
drive them migrate north and south, though the HCE is strongly skewed toward the
equator. All systems vary on scales from the event or synoptic scale of a few days,
through seasonal, to inter-decadal and long term. Productivity of each system follows
the upwelling cycle, though intra-regional variations in nutrient content and forcing
cause significant variability within regions. The CanCE is relatively unproductive
compared to the CalCE and HCE as a result of differences in large scale circulation
between the Pacific and Atlantic. The latter two systems are dominated by El Niño -
Southern Oscillation (ENSO) variability on a scale of 4-7 years. Physical modeling
with the Princeton Ocean Model and the Regional Oceanic Modeling System has
advanced recently to the stage of reproducing realistic mesoscale features and energy
levels with climatic wind forcing. Operational forecasting by these models with
assimilation of sea surface temperature and other data is successfully implemented in
CalCE. On longer time scales, the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory model is able
to hindcast El Niño variability over the long term up to 2 years in advance. Empirical
ecological models in all three systems have attempted prediction of permissible catch
level (fractional Maximum Sustainable Yield), recruitment, catches or onset of
migration with lack of continued success, partly because discontinuous or inadequate
observations hamper model implementation and assessment. Moreover, empirical
models tuned to particular environments fail when fundamental regime shifts occur.
One of the most successful approaches is that of intensive monitoring of catch and
188 P. Fréon
environmental parameters linked to an informal Operational Management Procedure
(OMP) to inform fisheries management off Peru. This OMP contributed to
preservation of anchovy stock during the 1997-8 El Niño but remains to be formalized
or tested under varying conditions. Prediction on time scales of global warming are
uncertain because physical climate models still disagree on whether upwelling will
intensify or weaken. Possible scenarios on decadal scale based on warming or cooling
of waters in the Eastern Boundary Current systems can be proffered, albeit with little
confidence at present. Future approaches for all systems, including the BCE, will in
the long run likely combine coupled atmospheric/ocean models with biological process
models. Judicious application of purely statistical modeling based on inherent time
series properties will assist, though such techniques are unable to cope with regime
shifts.

11/1111: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/theimpactofoverfishingandelninoontheconditionfactorandreproductivesuccessofperuvianhakemerlucciusgayiperuanus> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : The impact of overfishing and El Niño on the condition factor and reproductive success of Peruvian hake, Merluccius gayi peruanus
In this study we examine physiological responses of Peruvian hake (Merluccius gayi peruanus) to changes in their population structure and physical environment during the period 1971–2004. In particular, we assess the relative investment of energy in growth and/or reproduction of small (20–35 cm) and large (35–50 cm) hake. We calculated the (i) condition (Fulton's K), (ii) gonad and (iii) gut fullness indices for 42,761 female hakes sampled from commercial landings; these indices indicate fish somatic, reproductive and feeding condition, respectively. Using Generalized Additive Models we then examined potential relationships between these indices and sea surface temperature anomalies and date. Drastic energy exhaustion and a decrease in female hake fecundity were observed during El Niño events. The long-term trend showed a general increase in condition factor and a decrease in gonad index for large hake between 1971 and 2004. Small hake exhibited a different trend with an increase in reproductive activity, which was accompanied by an earlier maturation. We hypothesise that the observed low investment of energy in reproduction by large female hake might be related to the lack of large males, due to a sex-selective fishery and the impact of El Niño. We suggest that fishing diminished hake reproductive capacity, modified the sex ratio in favour of females and increased population vulnerability to environmental stress, in particular to the El Niño. The impact of multidecadal variability and predators like the squid, Dosidicus gigas, remain unresolved until longer time series become available.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

12/1112: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/atenyearperiodofdailyseasurfacetemperatureatacoastalstationinreunionislandindianoceanjulyaprilpatternsofvariabilityandbiologicalresponses> : SCORE = 3.6849484
Doc : A ten-year period of daily sea surface temperature at a coastal station in Reunion Island, Indian Ocean (July 1993 – April 2004): patterns of variability and biological responses


13/1113: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/outlookofoceanclimatevariabilityinthewesttropicalindianocean> : SCORE = 1.8424742
Doc : Outlook of ocean climate variability in the West tropical Indian Ocean, 1997‐2008
The trend of the major environmental parameters during the decade 1997‐200 is presented. The decade analysed is characterized by two large anomalous events related to the Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) events that dramatically reduced the catch rates of the purse seine fleets in the West Indian Ocean (WIO). During the IOD events, the WIO shows above normal sea surface temperature, deeper than normal thermocline and depleted chlorophyll concentration, denoting unfavourable foraging conditions in the surface layer. The most recent IOD event (2006‐2007) did not reach the magnitude of that of 1997‐98 but purse seine catches declined sharply from the previous years. Such a decline is undoubtedly related to anomalous environmental conditions affecting catchability, but the hypothesis of a reduced biomass after some years of very high catches may be an additional reason to this decline.

14/1114: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/predatorandpreybodysizesinmarinefoodwebs> : SCORE = 1.5353953
Doc : Predator and prey body sizes in marine food webs
Knowledge of relationships between predator size and prey size are needed to describe interactions of species and size classes in food webs.Most estimates of predator and prey sizes have been based on dietary studies and apply to small numbers of species in a relatively narrow size range. These estimatesmay ormay not be representative of values for other groups of species and body sizes or for other locations.Marine predator and prey size data associated with published literature were identified and collated to produce a single data set. If predator or prey length of mass were not measured in the original study, the length or mass was calculated using length–mass relationships. The data set consists of 34 931 records from 27 locations covering a wide range of environmental conditions from the tropics to the poles and for 93 types of predator with sizes ranging from 0.1mg to over 415 kg and 174 prey types with sizes from 75 pg to over 4.5 kg. Each record includes: predator and prey scientific names, common names, taxa, life stages and sizes (length and mass with conversion details), plus the type of feeding interaction, geographic location (with habitat description, latitude, longitude) and mean annual environmental data (sea surface temperature and primary productivity).

15/1115: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/gaoanenvironmentaldatabaseandsoftwaredesignedforfisheriesbiologists> : SCORE = 1.5353953
Doc : GAO: an environmental database and software designed for fisheries biologists
This paper presents a software (GAO) processing oceanographic data for fisheries research.
GAO is built from large datasets covering the tropical Atlantic and Indian Oceans, some
records starting in the early years of the 20th century. Observations are restricted to the upper
500m of the ocean, which encompasses most of the habitat of tunas and other top predators of
the offshore pelagic ecosystem. The datasets include oceanographic stations (temperature,
salinity, dissolved oxygen, phosphates and nitrates at depth levels), vertical temperature
profiles (MBTs, XBTs, CTDs), outputs of the OPA ocean circulation model (temperature,
salinity, current vectors, vertical velocity, at 13 depth levels), sea surface temperature and
wind-derived fields, Topex sea level anomalies and soon, a temperature-at-depth database at
grid points on the global ocean. These datasets are prepared in a way enabling data storage
and processing on the local hard disk of a standard personal computer. A Windows® software
performs extraction and queries on these databases. The goal of GAO is to be an easy-tohandle
tool for working groups in the fisheries domain, where quick reference to physical
environment is sometimes required.

16/1116: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/densitydependentchangesinreproductiveparametersandconditionofsouthernbenguelasardinesardinopssagax> : SCORE = 1.5353953
Doc : Density-dependent changes in reproductive parameters and condition of Southern Benguela sardine Sardinops sagax
The sardine Sardinops sagax population in the southern Benguela has undergone substantial fluctuations in size over the past 50 years, collapsing from an apparently large population in the 1950s to low levels in the mid-1960s, remaining low for the next two decades, and recovering from the late 1980s to a population size that is now similar to or larger than that which occurred during the 1950s. Marked changes in condition and reproductive parameters of sardine have also occurred during this period; condition and standardised gonad mass are higher and length-at-maturity is lower at low population size compared with high population size. The correspondence between the temporal patterns in condition, reproductive parameters and population size are strongly suggestive of density-dependence, and indicate a compensatory response arising from reduced intraspecific competition. This is likely to have resulted from greater per capita food intake, improved body condition and hence faster growth, thus enabling fish to achieve maturation at a presumably younger age and smaller size. Biological parameters did not vary in or out of phase with time-series of sea surface temperature in the southern Benguela, weakening the hypothesis of environmentally mediated changes in these parameters and hence providing support for the hypothesis of a direct density-dependent response by sardine.

17/1117: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/revisitingperuviananchovyengraulisringenstrophodynamicsprovidesanewvisionofthehumboldtcurrentsystem> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : Revisiting Peruvian anchovy (Engraulis ringens) trophodynamics provides a new vision of the Humboldt Current system
The Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) forages on plankton and is a main prey for marine mammals, seabirds, fish, and fishers, and is therefore a key element of the food web in the Humboldt Current system (HCS). Here, we present results from the analysis of 21,203 anchoveta stomach contents sampled during 23 acoustic surveys over the period 1996–2003. Prey items were identified to the genus level, and the relative dietary importance of different prey was assessed by determination of their carbon content. Variability in stomach fullness was examined relative to the diel cycle, the distance from the coast, sea surface temperature, and latitude, using generalized additive models (GAMs). Whereas phytoplankton largely dominated anchoveta diets in terms of numerical abundance and comprised >99% of ingested prey items, the carbon content of prey items indicated that zooplankton was by far the most important dietary component, with euphausiids contributing 67.5% of dietary carbon followed by copepods (26.3%). Stomach fullness data showed that anchoveta feed mainly during daytime between 07h00 and 18h00, although night-time feeding also made a substantial contribution to total food consumption. Stomach fullness also varied with latitude, distance from the coast, and temperature, but with substantial variability indicating a high degree of plasticity in anchoveta feeding behaviour. The results suggest an ecological role for anchoveta that challenges current understanding of its position in the foodweb, the functioning of the HCS, and trophic models of the HCS.
©2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

18/1118: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/largediurnaltemperaturefluctuationsinthenearshorewatercolumn> : SCORE = 1.8424742
Doc : Large diurnal temperature fluctuations in the nearshore water column
Large daily temperature fluctuations in the nearshore water column have been observed at several sites along the coast of central and northern Chile, particularly during summertime. These fluctuations are often on the order of the seasonal fluctuation in sea-surface temperature for the area and are capable, in certain locations, of penetrating deep (10-15 in) into the water column during the course of a single day. We explain this phenomenon by a combination of solar heating of the sea surface and wind-driven transport and accumulation of these warm, surface waters near shore. Measurements of surface heat flux agree roughly with observed daytime changes in the heat content of the nearshore water column. The strength of these diurnal fluctuations is shown to vary with the strength of coastal upwelling in the area. The potential consequences of this process for nearshore larval transport are unknown, but we briefly speculate about its importance. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

19/1119: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysingmultipletimeseriesandextendingsignificancetestinginwaveletanalysis> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : Analysing multiple time series and extending significance testing in wavelet analysis
In nature, non-stationarity is rather typical, but the number of statistical tools allowing for non-stationarity remains rather limited. Wavelet analysis is such a tool allowing for non-stationarity but the lack of an appropriate test for statistical inference as well as the difficulty to deal with multiple time series are 2 important shortcomings that limits its use in ecology. We present 2 approaches to deal with these shortcomings. First, we used 1/f beta models to test cycles in the wavelet spectrum against a null hypothesis that takes into account the highly autocorrelated nature of ecological time series. To illustrate the approach, we investigated the fluctuations in bluefin tuna trap catches with a set of different null models. The 1/f beta models approach proved to be the most consistent to discriminate significant cycles. Second, we used the maximum covariance analysis to compare, in a quantitative way, the time-frequency patterns (i.e. the wavelet spectra) of numerous time series. This approach built cluster trees that grouped the wavelet spectra according to their time-frequency patterns. Controlled signals and time series of sea surface temperature (SST) in the Mediterranean Sea were used to test the ability and power of this approach. The results were satisfactory and clusters on the SST time series displayed a hierarchical division of the Mediterranean into a few homogeneous areas that are known to display different hydrological and oceanic patterns. We discuss the limits and potentialities of these methods to study the associations between ecological and environmental fluctuations.

20/1120: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/aparsimoniousapproachtomodelinganimalmovementdata> : SCORE = 1.7371014
Doc : A parsimonious approach to modeling animal movement data
Animal tracking is a growing field in ecology and previous work has shown that simple speed filtering of tracking data is not sufficient and that improvement of tracking location estimates are possible. To date, this has required methods that are complicated and often time-consuming (state-space models), resulting in limited application of this technique and the potential for analysis errors due to poor understanding of the fundamental framework behind the approach. We describe and test an alternative and intuitive approach consisting of bootstrapping random walks biased by forward particles. The model uses recorded data accuracy estimates, and can assimilate other sources of data such as sea-surface temperature, bathymetry and/or physical boundaries. We tested our model using ARGOS and geolocation tracks of elephant seals that also carried GPS tags in addition to PTTs, enabling true validation. Among pinnipeds, elephant seals are extreme divers that spend little time at the surface, which considerably impact the quality of both ARGOS and light-based geolocation tracks. Despite such low overall quality tracks, our model provided location estimates within 4.0, 5.5 and 12.0 km of true location 50% of the time, and within 9, 10.5 and 20.0 km 90% of the time, for above, equal or below average elephant seal ARGOS track qualities, respectively. With geolocation data, 50% of errors were less than 104.8 km (<0.94°), and 90% were less than 199.8 km (<1.80°). Larger errors were due to lack of sea-surface temperature gradients. In addition we show that our model is flexible enough to solve the obstacle avoidance problem by assimilating high resolution coastline data. This reduced the number of invalid on-land location by almost an order of magnitude. The method is intuitive, flexible and efficient, promising extensive utilization in future research.

21/1121: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/generalisedmodelofprimaryproductioninthesouthernbenguelaupwellingsystem> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : Generalised model of primary production in the southern Benguela upwelling system
We provide a proof-of-concept demonstration using a novel method for estimating depth-integrated distributions of chlorophyll from archives of data from ships, buoys or gliders combined with remotely sensed data of sea surface temperature (SST) and surface chlorophyll a (chl a) from satellites. Our area of application has contrasting hydrographic regimes, which include the dynamic southern Benguela upwelling system and the stratified waters of the Agulhas Bank, South Africa. The method involves using self-organising maps (SOMs), a type of artificial neural network, to identify ‘typical' chl a profiles regardless of their statistical form, provided several of a similar shape have been found in the training set. These are arranged in a linear array, ranging from uniform profiles low in chl a to profiles with high surface or subsurface peaks. We then use generalised modelling to relate these characteristic profiles to remotely sensed surface features, viz. surface chl a and SST, as well as area, season, and water depth (a proxy for distance offshore). The model accounts for 87% of the variability in chl a profile and is used to predict the type of profile likely for each pixel in monthly remote sensing composites of SST and surface chl a and then to estimate integrated chl a and primary production with the aid of a light model. Primary production peaks in mid-summer, reaching 5 mgC m–2 d–1 locally, with an average over the whole area and all seasons of 1.4 mgC m–2 d–1. Seasonal variation is greatest in the southern part of the west coast, and lowest in the stratified southeast. Annual primary production for the southern Benguela region including the Agulhas Bank is ca. 156 million tC yr–1. This is the most robust estimate of primary production in the Benguela system to date because it combines the spatial and temporal coverage provided by remote sensing with realistic vertical chl a profiles.



1173) Recherche du mot : Squatina aculeata (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/squatina_aculeata)


1174) Recherche du mot : Stomac (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/stomac)
1/1122: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/stomacadatabaseforstoringinformationonstomachcontents> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : STOMAC :a database for storing information on stomach contents
Diet studies are very often based on stomach content analysis. The storage and the process of
such information are very useful for studying trophic pathways, especially when comparing
different species or systems. In the context of trophodynamic studies conducted in both Indian
and Atlantic oceans, we have developed a user-friendly database using MS ACCESS. This
paper gives an overview of the method we used for the analysis of the stomachs, and of the
structure of the database. The way to use it is illustrated with an example.



1175) Recherche du mot : Physical oceanography (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/physical_oceanography)


1176) Recherche du mot : Calmar à nageoire denticulée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ctenopteryx_sicula)


1177) Recherche du mot : coastal ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/coastal_ecosystem)
1/1123: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/primaryproductionandspatialdistributionofsubtidalmicrophytobenthosinatemperatecoastalsystemthebayofbrestfrance> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Primary production and spatial distribution of subtidal microphytobenthos in a temperate coastal system, the Bay of Brest, France
The main objective of this study was to define the primary production and the spatial and temporal distribution of the subtidal microphytobenthic community in a temperate coastal ecosystem, the Bay of Brest. The productivity of the microphytobenthos (MPB) was estimated in winter, spring and late summer, by a series of in situ benthic chamber incubations. Oxygen (O2) and dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) fluxes were measured at the sediment–water interface in light and dark conditions to determine the net and gross primary production present. Functional regression of the O2 and DIC data demonstrated that the community photosynthetic quotient (CPQ) for the benthic community was 1. A maximal gross production (Pmax) of between 0.4 and 0.8 mmol O2 mg chl a−1 h−1 was estimated for the MPB in the Bay. EK values were low, ranging from 57.8 to 83.4 μmol photons m−2 s−1 and can be considered an adaptation of the MPB to the reduced light levels reaching the sediment–water interface. Two sampling campaigns were undertaken in winter and late summer to measure the biomass of the benthic microalgal community in the Bay. Productivity estimates were combined with this biomass to give the MPB production in all areas of the Bay. Principal components analysis revealed that stations sampled were grouped primarily as a function of their depth, highlighting the importance above all of light availability, and their sediment type, with highest biomass concentrations found in bare muddy sediments. Hierarchical classification allowed the determination of four groups of stations in the Bay defined by their biotic and abiotic differences. The importance of the gastropod Crepidula fornicata in conditioning the benthic structural and biochemical environment was also highlighted. Geographical information systems based mapping allowed the representation of the spatial and temporal distribution of biomass and primary production and consequently a determination of the overall MPB production. Average seasonal production estimates for the Bay of Brest ranged from 57 in winter to 111 mg C m−2 day−1 in late summer and represented from 12–20% of total primary production.

2/1124: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/surfacecurrentsduringanomalousupwellingseasonsoffcentralcalifornia> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Surface currents during anomalous upwelling seasons off central California
An extensive spatio-temporal surface currents dataset from central California, USA is
used to examine in detail two extreme years in the California Current. 2006 is
characterized by an extended period of calm winds during the critical early months of the
upwelling season (April, May). This lead to little or no upwelling over this period,
essentially delaying the onset of the upwelling season. 2007 is characterized by
extremely strong alongshore wind stress during the first quarter of the year and during the
early part of the upwelling season. This produced monthly-mean alongshore current
velocities over the mid-shelf for April 2007 in excess of 0.7 m s-1, which has not been
previously observed in this region for periods of more than a few days since the
installation of the HF radar instruments in 2001. Both of these extremes appear to have
had important consequences for the coastal ecosystem that have been documented
elsewhere, including the collapse of parts of the trophic web (2006) and the presence of
large quantities of water of deep origin over the continental shelf (2007). Understanding
and describing circulation and transport patterns during these extremes is important in
light of predictions from global climate change, which may cause these extreme
conditions to occur more frequently.

3/1125: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactsofkelvinwaveforcingintheperuhumboldtcurrentsystemscenariosofspatialreorganizationsfromphysicstofishers> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Impacts of Kelvin wave forcing in the Peru Humboldt Current system: Scenarios of spatial reorganizations from physics to fishers
Because climate change challenges the sustainability of important fish populations and the fisheries they support, we need to understand how large scale climatic forcing affects the functioning of marine ecosystems. In the Humboldt Current system (HCS), a main driver of climatic variability is coastally-trapped Kelvin waves (KWs), themselves originating as oceanic equatorial KWs. Here we (i) describe the spatial reorganizations of living organisms in the Humboldt coastal system as affected by oceanic KWs forcing, (ii) quantify the strength of the interactions between the physical and biological component dynamics of the system, (iii) formulate hypotheses on the processes which drive the redistributions of the organisms, and (iv) build scenarios of space occupation in the HCS under varying KW forcing. To address these questions we explore, through bivariate lagged correlations and multivariate statistics, the relationships between time series of oceanic KW amplitude (TAO mooring data and model-resolved baroclinic modes) and coastal Peruvian oceanographic data (SST, coastal upwelled waters extent), anchoveta spatial distribution (mean distance to the coast, spatial concentration of the biomass, mean depth of the schools), and fishing fleet statistics (trip duration, searching duration, number of fishing sets and catch per trip, features of the foraging trajectory as observed by satellite vessel monitoring system). Data sets span all or part of January 1983 to September 2006. The results show that the effects of oceanic KW forcing are significant in all the components of the coastal ecosystem, from oceanography to the behaviour of the top predators – fishers. This result provides evidence for a bottom-up transfer of the behaviours and spatial stucturing through the ecosystem. We propose that contrasting scenarios develop during the passage of upwelling versus downwelling KWs. From a predictive point of view, we show that KW amplitudes observed in the mid-Pacific can be used to forecast which system state will dominate the HCS over the next 2–6 months. Such predictions should be integrated in the Peruvian adaptive fishery management.

4/1126: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/biodepositionbyaninvasivesuspensionfeederimpactsthebiogeochemicalcycleofsiinacoastalecosystembayofbrestfrance> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Biodeposition by an invasive suspension feeder impacts the biogeochemical cycle of Si in a coastal ecosystem (Bay of Brest, France)
Biodeposition is a process that strongly affects physical, chemical and biological properties near the sediment-water interface, and mollusks have been shown to influence the cycling of many biogenic elements. In the Bay of Brest ecosystem, the invasive benthic suspension feeder Crepidula fornicata has been proliferating for 50 years, and its influence on phytoplankton dynamics at a seasonal scale, via its role on a coastal silicate pump, has been suggested by Chauvaud et al. (2000) [Chauvaud L., Jean F., Ragueneau O. and Thouzeau G. 2000. Mar. Ecol. Prog. Ser. 200: 35 48} and tested by Ragueneau et al. (2002a) [Ragueneau 0., Chauvaud L., Leynaert A.. Thouzeau G., Paulet Y.-M., Bonnet S., Lorrain A., Grall J., Corvaisier R., Le Hir M., Jean F. and Clavier J. (2002a). Limnol. Oceanogr. 47(6): 1849-1854]. In the present manuscript, we explore further, at an annual scale, the role of biodeposition in the Si cycle of the Bay of Brest. We show that annual biodeposition Si can represent up to 84% of river silicic acid inputs. We also show that preservation of biogenic silica in C. fornicata mats is very good (27%), leading to an annual retention of Si of 23% of river imputs. We suggest that this high retention is essentially controlled by the biodeposition mechanism, which is directly under the control of the proliferation of the exotic suspension feeder. We conclude that this mechanism might be very important in controlling the Si retention along the land ocean continuum and should be tested in the many areas of the coastal ocean submitted to the proliferation of such exotic species that modify sedimentation of biogenic matter.



1178) Recherche du mot : salpes (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/salpes)


1179) Recherche du mot : Albatros errante (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diomedea_exulans)


1180) Recherche du mot : rejet (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/discard)


1181) Recherche du mot : Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) satellite (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/trmm)


1182) Recherche du mot : discard (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/discard)
1/1127: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysisofdataobtainedfromobserverprogrammesconductedinandintheindianoceanonboardfrenchpurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Analysis of data obtained from observer programmes conducted in 2005 and 2006 in the indian ocean on board french purse seiners
This paper is a preliminary analysis of the data obtained under the National Database Plan (PNDB).
Between October 2005 and July 2006, three observers from the Development and Research Institute
(IRD) have been on board four French tuna purse seiners. They had to estimate by-catch and discard
and collect detailed information on the fishing activities and the use of FADs.
Areas prospected during these 134 days were NW Seychelles, SE Seychelles, E. Somalia and
Maldives-Chagos; 194 sets (116 positives and 86 negative) have been observed, with a majority
(84%) on free schools (162 sets, 51% positive) and quite few (16%) on associated schools (32 sets,
81% positives). During the day, the main activities of the boat were searching and fishing,
respectively 31% and 13% of total activity. Main reasons for null sets over free school as well as
FADs was that fish sinks or move too fast.
Discards were practically nulls and concerned mainly yellowfin tuna. About by-catch, it represents
less than 1% of total catch (in weight), mainly triggerfish, rainbow runner and wahoo. Selacians
(except shark whales) represented nearly 12% of the total by-catch (in weight) with mainly silky shark
over FADs and skate over free school. As regards billfishes, they represent 5% of total by-catch (in
weight) with mainly Indo-Pacific Sailfish over free school and black marlin over FADs.

2/1128: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

3/1129: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.



1183) Recherche du mot : Vessel Monitoring System (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/VMS)
1/1130: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactsofkelvinwaveforcingintheperuhumboldtcurrentsystemscenariosofspatialreorganizationsfromphysicstofishers> : SCORE = 1.2283162
Doc : Impacts of Kelvin wave forcing in the Peru Humboldt Current system: Scenarios of spatial reorganizations from physics to fishers
Because climate change challenges the sustainability of important fish populations and the fisheries they support, we need to understand how large scale climatic forcing affects the functioning of marine ecosystems. In the Humboldt Current system (HCS), a main driver of climatic variability is coastally-trapped Kelvin waves (KWs), themselves originating as oceanic equatorial KWs. Here we (i) describe the spatial reorganizations of living organisms in the Humboldt coastal system as affected by oceanic KWs forcing, (ii) quantify the strength of the interactions between the physical and biological component dynamics of the system, (iii) formulate hypotheses on the processes which drive the redistributions of the organisms, and (iv) build scenarios of space occupation in the HCS under varying KW forcing. To address these questions we explore, through bivariate lagged correlations and multivariate statistics, the relationships between time series of oceanic KW amplitude (TAO mooring data and model-resolved baroclinic modes) and coastal Peruvian oceanographic data (SST, coastal upwelled waters extent), anchoveta spatial distribution (mean distance to the coast, spatial concentration of the biomass, mean depth of the schools), and fishing fleet statistics (trip duration, searching duration, number of fishing sets and catch per trip, features of the foraging trajectory as observed by satellite vessel monitoring system). Data sets span all or part of January 1983 to September 2006. The results show that the effects of oceanic KW forcing are significant in all the components of the coastal ecosystem, from oceanography to the behaviour of the top predators – fishers. This result provides evidence for a bottom-up transfer of the behaviours and spatial stucturing through the ecosystem. We propose that contrasting scenarios develop during the passage of upwelling versus downwelling KWs. From a predictive point of view, we show that KW amplitudes observed in the mid-Pacific can be used to forecast which system state will dominate the HCS over the next 2–6 months. Such predictions should be integrated in the Peruvian adaptive fishery management.

2/1131: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/levytrajectoriesofperuvianpurseseinersasanindicatorofthespatialdistributionofanchovyengraulisringens> : SCORE = 1.8424742
Doc : Levy trajectories of Peruvian purse-seiners as an indicator of the spatial distribution of anchovy (Engraulis ringens)
Analogous to other top predators foraging on patchy resources, the spatial behaviour of fishers provides information on the spatial organization of fish. Focusing on the Peruvian anchovy purse-seine fishery, vessel monitoring system data are used to describe fishing vessels' trajectories, and acoustic survey data to characterize anchovy spatial distribution. Vessel trajectories were analysed in terms of move-length distribution, whereas fish distribution was characterized by spatial extent, concentration, and fractal dimension. Fishers perform Levy flights that can be characterized by a single statistic (mu); mu is significantly correlated with the fractal dimension of fish distribution. It is argued that the Levy statistic is a good candidate for an ecosystem indicator that might contribute to realtime monitoring of ecosystems.

3/1132: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/scaleinvariantmovementsoffishermenthesameforagingstrategyasnaturalpredators> : SCORE = 1.5353953
Doc : Scale invariant movements of fishermen: the same foraging strategy as natural predators
We analyzed the movement of fishing vessels during fishing trips in order to understand how fishermen behave in space while searching for fish. For that purpose we used hourly geo-referenced positions of vessels, provided by a satellite vessel monitoring system, for the entire industrial fleet (809 vessels) of the world's largest single species fishery (Peruvian anchovy, Engraulis ringens) from December 1999 to March 2003. Observed trajectories of fishing vessels are well modeled by Lévy random walks, suggesting that fishermen use a stochastic search strategy which conforms to the same search statistics as non-human predators. We show that human skills (technology, communication, or others) do not result in the fishermen's spatial behavior being fundamentally different from that of animal predators. With respect to probability of prey encounter, our results suggest that fishermen, on average, evolved an optimal movement pattern (μ = 2.00) among the family of Lévy random walks. This Lagrangian approach opens several perspectives in terms of operational management of the pelagic fish stock.

4/1133: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deepseaconferenceonthegovernanceandmanagementofdeepseafisheries> : SCORE = 0.9212371
Doc : Deep Sea 2003: Conference on the Governance and Management of Deep-sea Fisheries
INTRODUCTION: 
The growing capacity of fishermen to repeat fishing operations at some known locations thanks to, for instance, precise maps of past activity and global positioning systems (GPS), is becoming more apparent as fine-scale information on fishing activities becomes available. Aggregated declarations at the level of statistical square levels hides the fine-scale information and the possibility to analyze small-scale fishing strategies. When available, information on fishing effort such as observers' declarations or vessel monitoring system (VMS) reports may indicate that the tendency of specific-area repeat fishing is sometimes frequent (Rijnsdorp, van Mourik Broekman and Visser 2000). In this paper, we are concerned by the fact that small-scale fishing tactics may interfere in the relation between commercial catch per unit effort (CPUE) and indices of abundance and potentially reduce the relevancy of mean CPUE for resource analysis purposes. The relationship between CPUE and abundance can be biased (e.g. Hillborn and Walters 1987, Rahikainen and Kuikka 2002) as it is the product of several processes such as schooling behaviour of fish, variation in catchability, interactions between fishing vessels and spatial distribution of fishing effort.

In this paper, we consider the trawl fishery for Patagonian toothfish (Dissostichus eleginoides) off Kerguelen Islands in the Indian sector of the Southern Ocean. In spite of difficult conditions of exploitation, the fishery increased until the end of the 1990s. The fishery can be characterized in the context of this paper by the fact that (a) it is mono-specific - toothfish alone is caught, (b) fishermen do a lot of repetitive tows and (c), management rules changed a few years after the fishery started, switching from global to individual quotas. Making use of the spatio-temporal distribution of tows, Bez, De Oliveira and Duhamel (in press) showed that a mean depletion effect of 5 to 10 percent per tow exists under repetitive fishing for toothfish. This local depletion is stronger for icefish (Champsocephalus gunnari) and grey rockcod (Lepidonotothen squamifrons). However these local depletion effects are weak and the fluctuations observed around the decreasing trends can be attributed to changes in the fishing efficiencies from one tow to the next. The objective of this paper is to use the repetitive fishing to estimate fishing efficiency distributions and to interpret their changes with regards to the change in regulations.

Here, "local fishing efficiency" measures the capacity of a unit of effort to catch fish effectively accessible to fishing (Gascuel 1993). As with all components of catchability, the local fishing efficiency should be estimated with CPUEs based on the same underlying fish abundance, which is never possible. Robson (1966) circumvented this difficulty by assuming homogeneity of fish density over quadrats. Laurec (1977) used geostatistical tools to account for the differences between two CPUEs when using them. Here, we use the territorial behaviour of toothfish and the existence of a series of repetitive fishing to build ratios of consecutive CPUEs to estimate fishing efficiency probability distributions.



1184) Recherche du mot : Leatherback turtle (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/dermochelys_coriacea)
1/1134: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thermalandtrophichabitatsoftheleatherbackturtleduringthenestingseasoninfrenchguiana> : SCORE = 1.002916
Doc : Thermal and trophic habitats of the leatherback turtle during the nesting season in French Guiana
Understanding environmental cues determining behaviour and habitat use of species of conservation
concern is crucial if one aims at implementing sustainable management of these natural resources. In this
way, here, we investigate the thermal and trophic conditions encountered by the critically endangered
leatherback sea turtle Dermochelys coriacea during its nesting season in French Guiana where high bycatch
rates have been reported.
Mean sea water temperatures obtained in situ by animal-borne recorders were 26.6±0.7 °C in the water
column, with all but one turtle remaining in water N25 °C during the inter-nesting interval. In terms of prey
availability, regular jellyfish stranding events were recorded during the nesting season, on a 1.25-km long
section of the nesting beach. The occurrence of jellyfish was supported by benthic trawls performed on the
continental shelf, with a total of 45.4 kg of jellyfish collected in 3.5 h exclusively in coastal waters 10 to 20 m
deep where water transparency was between 0.8 and 3 m. This is consistent with the at sea distribution area
of gravid leatherbacks during their inter-nesting intervals, as they spent almost 70% of their time diving in
shallow (b20 m deep) waters in front of the Maroni River estuary. In French Guiana, leatherback's gelatinous
prey are thus present in very shallow water close to the nesting site and may be easily exploited by active
gravid leatherbacks. This suggests that French Guiana female leatherbacks may be influenced by local trophic
conditions and actively prospect productive areas overlapping with local fisheries ground.



1185) Recherche du mot : Atún tongol (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_tonggol)


1186) Recherche du mot : Océan Pacifique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pacificOcean)


1187) Recherche du mot : Voilier Indo-Pacifique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/istiophorus_platypterus)


1188) Recherche du mot : Oceanic whitetip shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_longimanus)


1189) Recherche du mot : Emperor red snapper (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lutjanus_sebae)


1190) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus altimus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_altimus)


1191) Recherche du mot : écosystème marin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/marine_ecosystem)


1192) Recherche du mot : Masturus lanceolatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/masturus_lanceolatus)


1193) Recherche du mot : Cornet japonais (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/moroteuthis_lonnbergii)


1194) Recherche du mot : Identifiant FAO pour un taxon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/faoLatinName)


1195) Recherche du mot : Via Zéphyr (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/via_zephyr)


1196) Recherche du mot : VALLEE SOUS-MARINE (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/valley)


1197) Recherche du mot : niveau trophique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/trophic_level)
1/1135: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/changesinthetrophicstructureoffishdemersalcommunitiesinwestafricainthethreelastdecades> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Changes in the trophic structure of fish demersal communities in West Africa in the three last decades
Les écosystèmes marins en Afrique de l'Ouest sont très productifs et ont permis à d'importantes pêcheries de se développer rapidement au cours des dernières décennies. L'analyse de l'impact de la pêche sur les ressources exploitées est couramment conduite par des évaluations de type monospécifique. Dans cette étude, nous proposons une approche alternative qui permettrait de mieux intégrer la dimension écosystémique. En Guinée et au Sénégal, les pêcheries se sont développées récemment, parallèlement la collecte des données de débarquement et de campagnes scientifiques s'est mise en place. Aussi, les données couvrent toute une période depuis la date où les stocks étaient considérés comme non exploités jusqu'à la situation de surexploitation actuelle. Ce cas d'étude est analysé afin de regarder les changements intervenus dans la structure de l'écosystème, en particulier ceux qui pourraient être expliqués par l'augmentation de la pression de pêche. Pour cela, nous estimons des spectres trophiques et des séries de niveaux trophiques moyens pour les communautés de poissons démersaux. Un spectre trophique permet de montrer la répartition de la biomasse de l'écosystème ou la position des captures commerciales dans la chaîne trophique selon des classes de niveaux trophiques. Nous observons des changements importants dans la structure des écosystèmes guinéens et sénégalais. En particulier, la biomasse des hauts niveaux trophiques diminue tandis que celle des bas niveaux trophiques augmente ou reste relativement stable. Cette observation est peut être liée à un effet « Top-Down » du au relâchement de la prédation sur les bas niveaux trophiques. Au Sénégal, la même tendance est observée avec les donnée de captures. Par ailleurs, le niveau trophique moyen diminue significativement autant pour les captures que pour la biomasse. En Guinée, seule une diminution de la biomasse est observée en zone côtière. Globalement, ces résultats montrent que les activités de pêche ont un impact sur la structure trophique des écosystèmes et pour la première fois un effet « fishing down marine food web » est montré en Afrique de l'Ouest.



1198) Recherche du mot : Pristipomoides typus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pristipomoides_typus)


1199) Recherche du mot : flore (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/flora)


1200) Recherche du mot : Parapronoe sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/parapronoe_sp)


1201) Recherche du mot : Escolar oscuro (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/nealotus_tripes)


1202) Recherche du mot : catches (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/catches)
1/1136: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatializedecosystemindicatorsinthesouthernbenguela> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Spatialized ecosystem indicators in the southern Benguela
Based on published distribution maps of 15 key fish species, foraging areas of three top predators during their breeding season, and fishing grounds of the main commercial fleets in the southern Benguela ecosystem, seven spatialized ecosystem indicators are derived: biodiversity, connectivity, mean ratio of fished area and area of distribution by species, exploited fraction of the ecosystem surface area, total catch per fished area by fishery, mean bottom depth of catches, and mean distance of catches from the coast. These indicators are compared and their suitability for an ecosystem approach to fisheries is discussed. The first two indicators characterize the ecosystem; the others are pressure indicators that are also compared with conventional (catch rate) indices of abundance.

2/1137: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/sensitivityofmarinesystemstoclimateandfishingconceptsissuesandmanagementresponses> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Sensitivity of marine systems to climate and fishing: Concepts, issues and management responses
Modern fisheries research and management must understand and take account of the interactions between climate and fishing, rather than try to disentangle their effects and address each separately. These interactions are significant drivers of change in exploited marine systems and have ramifications for ecosystems and those who depend on the services they provide. We discuss how fishing and climate forcing interact on individual fish, marine populations, marine communities, and ecosystems to bring these levels into states that are more sensitive to (i.e. more strongly related with) climate forcing. Fishing is unlikely to alter the sensitivities of individual finfish and invertebrates to climate forcing. It will remove individuals with specific characteristics from the gene pool, thereby affecting structure and function at higher levels of organisation. Fishing leads to a loss of older age classes, spatial contraction, loss of sub-units, and alteration of life history traits in populations, making them more sensitive to climate variability at interannual to interdecadal scales. Fishing reduces the mean size of individuals and mean trophic level of communities, decreasing their turnover time leading them to track environmental variability more closely. Marine ecosystems under intense exploitation evolve towards stronger bottom–up control and greater sensitivity to climate forcing. Because climate change occurs slowly, its effects are not likely to have immediate impacts on marine systems but will be manifest as the accumulation of the interactions between fishing and climate variability — unless threshold limits are exceeded. Marine resource managers need to develop approaches which maintain the resilience of individuals, populations, communities and ecosystems to the combined and interacting effects of climate and fishing. Overall, a less-heavily fished marine system, and one which shifts the focus from individual species to functional groups and fish communities, is likely to provide more stable catches with climate variability and change than would a heavily fished system.
Crown Copyright © 2009 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

3/1138: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multispeciesassessmentoftunascaughtinthetropicalatlanticpurseseinefisherysensitivityofproductionmodelstobiasesinreportedcatches> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Multi-species assessment of tunas caught in the Tropical Atlantic purse Seine fishery: sensitivity of production models to biases in reported catches
In this document, different scenarios of uncertainties in a multispecies fishery are presented. Uncertainties have been considered in the estimation of the species composition of the tropical tuna catch as well as in the total catch. Although three species (yellofin, skipjack and bigeye) are involved in the tropical tuna fishery, only uncertainties in the bigeye vs skipjack have been taken into account, in order to simplify the analysis. Regarding the total catch, bigeye has been considered as the species with higher uncertainty due to the IUU catch component. Analyses have been focused in evaluating the sensitivity of the current assessment methods to these uncertainties. Taking into account that the two sources of uncertainty affect the age structure of the catch as well as the total catch, surplus production methods have been applied in the assessment.

4/1139: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/firstfieldbasedexperimentsupportingthemeetingpointhypothesisforschoolinginpelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : First field-based experiment supporting the meeting point hypothesis for schooling in pelagic fish
Aggregations of fish around fish aggregation devices (FADs) have been widely described in the literature;
most commercial catches of tuna by surface fisheries are performed around FADs, taking advantage of
this behaviour. The meeting point hypothesis (MPH) suggests that fish could make use of FADs to
increase the chance of encounters between conspecifics, helping individuals to form larger schools. To
attempt a validation of the MPH, we performed an experiment in the field to test the following
predictions: (1) fish spend more time at FADs than at any other random points and therefore aggregate
around FADs, and (2) fish arrive at FADs as isolated individuals or in small groups and leave them in
larger groups. Our investigation involved acoustic telemetry techniques commonly used to observe fish
at FADs. The study was carried out on a small pelagic fish species, the bigeye scad, Selar crumenophthalmus,
in Saint-Paul's Bay (Reunion Island). Our results validated our two predictions: FADs acted as
retention points, increasing the encounter rate of fish and enhancing schooling behaviour, thereby
supporting the meeting point hypothesis. FADs could be beneficial to the fitness of the associated fish,
promote increased school size and hence confer the advantages of being in a larger group. The impact of
the deployment of large number of FADs in some ocean regions is reinterpreted in light of our results.
 2009 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

5/1140: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewoffisherydatainrelationwiththeimplementationoftheseasonalmoratoriumonfadfisheriesintheatlantic> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : An overview of fishery data in relation with the implementation of the seasonal moratorium on FAD fisheries in the Atlantic
This paper presents a set of figures related to the tuna catches by species and by area taken by purse seiners in the Atlantic during recent
years. Most of these figures are based on the EU purse seiners as this
fleet has been the most important in the area and always providing good TASK 2 data to the ICCAT. Its main goal is to show the major changes in the purse seine fisheries during recent years, and especially in relation with the moratorium on FAD fishing, partial EU or total ICCAT, that has been + or – well implemented during the period novembre 1997-January 2005. These figures and maps are based on the basic ICCAT TASK2 data base, and they could easily be rehandled following potential new needs expressed by the ICCAT WGs

6/1141: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evoluciondelascapturasdejuvenilesderabilypatudodesdelaextenciondelapescasobreobjectosbalizados> : SCORE = 1.2410451
Doc : Evolucion de las capturas de juveniles de rabil y patudo desde la extencion de la pesca sobre objectos balizados
This document analyses the distribution of the catch of small yellowfin obtained for the entire
purse seine tuna fishing fleet in the Atlantic Ocean from 1991 to 2003. Catches have been
analysed by year, month, area and fishing mode (free school or floating object), in order to
define areas, seasons and fishing mode associated with largest catches of small yellowfin and
the possible relationship with the moratoria established to reduce juvenile bigeye catches.

7/1142: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialdistributionofcubicepspauciradiatusperciformesnomeidaeinthetropicalindianoceananditsimportanceinthedietoflargepelagicfishes> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Spatial distribution of Cubiceps pauciradiatus (Perciformes:Nomeidae) in the tropical Indian Ocean and its importance in the diet of large pelagic fishes
The bigeye cigarfish (Cubiceps pauciradiatus) is a small pelagic nomeid of the tropical world ocean, often recovered in the stomach contents of top predators such as tunas, billfishes and marine mammals. In the Indian Ocean, a few studies have investigated the biology and the ecology of this species that is one of the most abundant fish of the intermediate trophic levels. In this paper, we investigated the spatial distribution of C. pauciradiatus in the Indian Ocean using pelagic trawl catches carried out between 20°N and 45°S, and the importance of bigeye cigarfish in the diet of 9 piscivorous fishes sampled by different fishing gears in the western part of the Indian Ocean. The highest densities were observed along the eastern coast of Africa and in the Arabian Sea (87 000 individuals per square nautical mile) during the South-West Monsoon and in the eastern part of the Seychelles archipelago (62 200 ind. square nmi) during the North-East Monsoon. Small sized bigeye cigarfish (20–80 mm SL) was a regular and abundant prey (20 to 200 ind. per stomach) for schooling predators exploited by purse seine fishery such as large yellowfin and bigeye tunas chasing prey near the sea surface. Large sized bigeye cigarfish (61–150 mm SL) occurred in small numbers (3 to 20 ind. per stomach) in the stomach contents of swordfish and of large yellowfin and bigeye tunas caught by longline sets at great depths. Large concentrations of bigeye cigarfish occurred in zones of high productivity, and that species constituted seasonally a strong link in the transfer of energy from low to high trophic levels in this part of the Indian Ocean.

8/1143: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabiladultothunnusalbacaresdelaflotadecercotropicaleuropeaeneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Actualizacion de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil adulto (thunnus albacares) de la flota de cerco tropical europea en el oceano atlantico de 1980 a 2006
This document presents a standardized index update of adult yellowfin (>30 kg) of tropical purse seine fleets in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006. The data used were taken from spear fishing logbooks and detailed information of the fleet. The standardization has been carried out by generalized linear models (GLM) using the delta model. The standardized indices are obtained from the GLM model estimations: one is calculated from the least squares means (LSMeans) and another from the annual averages of the adjusted values. The variability of the latter is lower. Therefore, in this case, it is a more adequate index to be used in assessment models. The year, country, category, age of vessel and catches of skipjack tuna, which is the other target species of these fleets, were considered as explanatory variables.

9/1144: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteonthestockstructureofpacificbigeyetunatobeusedinstockassessments> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Note on the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna to be used in stock assessments
This paper reviews and discusses the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna in relation with the prospects of stock assessment analysis of this population. The analysis of fishery data, mainly the spatio temporal bigeye catches by gear and by sizes, indicates that the present 150°W frontier based on historical and administrative results does not appear to be a convenient biological frontier. Our conclusion is that the present lack of significant tag recoveries across the 150°W frontier should not be considered as being significant, due to the limited numbers of bigeye presently tagged and to the great distances between present tagging locations. North South movements of adult bigeye are also a potential source of mixing between eastern and western bigeye populations. It is hypothetized that there could be an increased net flow of juvenile bigeye towards the WCPO due to the increased number of FADs in the western EPO. Our conclusion is that all the bigeye stock assessments by WCPFC and the IATTC should preferably be conducted in a unified best model and at a Pacific wide scale. A large scale tagging programme covering the distribution area of the entire bigeye population and fully coordinated between WCPFC and IATTC would be necessary to obtain realistic and age specific movement patterns at a Pacific wide level. Management actions of the bigeye stocks should also be fully coordinated between the Western and Eastern stocks, because of the probably weak biological frontier and also because of the bigeye long life span. The long term management benefits or failures will probably be shared by WCPFC and IATTC.

10/1145: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/driftingfishaggregationdevicescouldactasanecologicaltrapfortropicaltunaspecies> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Drifting fish aggregation devices could act as an ecological trap for tropical tuna species
Purse seine fishing on fish aggregating devices (FADs) has expanded considerably during
the last 15 yr in tropical tuna purse seine fisheries, and FADs currently account for about 70% of
their reported tuna catches. The scientific community has expressed concern over the consequences
of this fishing practice in terms of yield per recruit and suspected detrimental effects on FADassociated
tunas. To explore possible detrimental effects, we compared stomach fullness, fish plumpness,
growth rate, and migration behaviour between free school and drifting FAD-associated tunas
for skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis and yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares caught in the Atlantic
and Indian Oceans. Significant differences in fish plumpness and individual growth rates were found,
suggesting that individuals associated with drifting FADs were less healthy than those in free schools.
Since stomach fullness indicated that tunas associated with FADs eat less than those in free schools,
the difference in growth rate and condition could be the consequence of altered feeding patterns. For
each species, significant changes in migratory direction and displacement rates were observed in the
presence of drifting FADs. These findings support the hypothesis that FADs act as a super-stimulus,
misleading tunas to make inappropriate habitat selection. However, further studies are required to
investigate the long-term effect of FADs on the entire life cycle of tunas.

11/1146: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/repetitivefishinglocaldepletionandfishingefficiencies> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Repetitive fishing, local depletion and fishing efficiencies
Commercial catch per unit effort (cpue) recorded by observers on board trawlers operating
in the French EEZ around the Kerguelen Islands (south Indian Ocean) are used to analyse
the impact of repetitive fishing on cpues and to estimate local fishing efficiencies. Series of
cpues from the same fishing locations and no more than two days apart are first built, and
then the mean depletion effect of repetitive fishing (between 4% and 10% for Patagonian
toothfish and around 20% for icefish and marbled notothen) is quantified. Random fluctuations
of cpues around an exponential decrease (i.e. the reference model when fishing efficiencies
are constant) lead to modelling fishing efficiency as a random variable. Based
on the observations of the ratio between two consecutive catches, a method is developed
to estimate the probability density function of fishing efficiencies. The significant decrease
of average fishing efficiency between the start of the fishery and its full exploitation phase is
explained by a change in regulations (from global to individual quotas).

12/1147: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingforecastingandscenariosincomparableupwellingecosystemscaliforniacanaryandhumboldt> : SCORE = 0.30707902
Doc : Modelling, forecasting and scenarios in comparable upwelling ecosystems: California, Canary and Humboldt
The three eastern boundary ecosystems comparable to the Benguela ecosystem (BCE)
display differences and commonalities. The California (CalCE) and Humboldt Current
(HCE) ecosystems are continuous topographically, whereas the Canary Current
ecosystem (CanCE) is interrupted by the Gulf of Cadiz and the Canaries archipelago.
All have similar regimes of equatorward flow over shelf and slope associated with
upwelling and a subsurface poleward flow over the slope, though in the HCE multiple
flows and counter-flows appear offshore. All systems exhibit year round upwelling in
their centre and seasonal upwelling at their extremes as the trade wind systems that
drive them migrate north and south, though the HCE is strongly skewed toward the
equator. All systems vary on scales from the event or synoptic scale of a few days,
through seasonal, to inter-decadal and long term. Productivity of each system follows
the upwelling cycle, though intra-regional variations in nutrient content and forcing
cause significant variability within regions. The CanCE is relatively unproductive
compared to the CalCE and HCE as a result of differences in large scale circulation
between the Pacific and Atlantic. The latter two systems are dominated by El Niño -
Southern Oscillation (ENSO) variability on a scale of 4-7 years. Physical modeling
with the Princeton Ocean Model and the Regional Oceanic Modeling System has
advanced recently to the stage of reproducing realistic mesoscale features and energy
levels with climatic wind forcing. Operational forecasting by these models with
assimilation of sea surface temperature and other data is successfully implemented in
CalCE. On longer time scales, the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory model is able
to hindcast El Niño variability over the long term up to 2 years in advance. Empirical
ecological models in all three systems have attempted prediction of permissible catch
level (fractional Maximum Sustainable Yield), recruitment, catches or onset of
migration with lack of continued success, partly because discontinuous or inadequate
observations hamper model implementation and assessment. Moreover, empirical
models tuned to particular environments fail when fundamental regime shifts occur.
One of the most successful approaches is that of intensive monitoring of catch and
188 P. Fréon
environmental parameters linked to an informal Operational Management Procedure
(OMP) to inform fisheries management off Peru. This OMP contributed to
preservation of anchovy stock during the 1997-8 El Niño but remains to be formalized
or tested under varying conditions. Prediction on time scales of global warming are
uncertain because physical climate models still disagree on whether upwelling will
intensify or weaken. Possible scenarios on decadal scale based on warming or cooling
of waters in the Eastern Boundary Current systems can be proffered, albeit with little
confidence at present. Future approaches for all systems, including the BCE, will in
the long run likely combine coupled atmospheric/ocean models with biological process
models. Judicious application of purely statistical modeling based on inherent time
series properties will assist, though such techniques are unable to cope with regime
shifts.

13/1148: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statitiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileependantlaperiode> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Statitiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée pendant la période 1991-2006
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of the European and similar baitboat and
purse seine fleets7 from 1991 to 2006. The data in this document for 1991 to 2006 have been revised and
completed for 2005-2006. The species breakdown of the catches in 2006 is provisional and should be
subject to verification. The document gives information on the characteristics of the fleets (fishing type
by category, in number), fishing effort by type and size category of the vessels, the number of 1o areas
visited by the fleet per year during the period, the catches, standardized effort and the CPUEs by
species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as well as the catches by size classes per quarter for
each of the three species and for the two gears, and the average individual weights by species (by
quarter and by gear). Fishing maps are also provided indicating the deployment of the fleet in the
eastern Atlantic as well as the time-area breakdown of the catches of the European and similar purse
seiners in 2006, compared to the average of 2001-2005.

14/1149: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/therelevanceofsizeparametersasindicatorsoffisheryexploitationintwowestafricanreservoirs> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : The relevance of size parameters as indicators of fishery exploitation in two West African reservoirs
Abstract  Fish communities living within the artificial reservoirs of Manantali and Selingue in Mali are compared after the monitoring
of small-scale fishery landings over 13 months (May 2002–June 2003). The fishing pressure constitutes the main difference
of these two similar reservoirs. The effects of fishing on the structure of the fish communities are analyzed by using fish
size spectra and derived indicators. In Selingue Reservoir, the fishing gears mostly target smaller species (mean length of
165 mm) than in Manantali Reservoir (mean length of 210 mm). Unlike in Selingue, the size structure does not change between
seasons in Manantali. In Selingue, fishing practices that target the fish recruitment of the year constitute a structuring
factor of the fish sizes observed in the catches. In spite of similar values of the slopes of the global fish communities'
size spectra between the two reservoirs, they clearly display an intense exploitation at Selingue. Then, size-based spectra
indicators represent a potential tool for assessing the impact of fishing on fish communities in small-scale fisheries.

15/1150: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acomparisonofbigeyethunnusobesusstocksandfisheriesintheatlanticindianandpacificoceans> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : A comparison of bigeye (Thunnus obesus) stocks and fisheries in the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans
This paper presents a comparison of fisheries exploiting bigeye tuna. First, a comparison of the
bigeye catch trends by ocean is done. It shows in all areas a fast and quite synchronous
increase of bigeye catches since the early 1980s, followed by a stable or slowly declining catch
trend. Worldwide catches are due to a combination of low value bigeye taken by purse seiners
(mainly small sizes under FADs and of valuable large bigeye targeted by longliners for the
sashimi market. Sizes taken by the various gears in the three oceans are compared. Historical
changes of fishing zones are analysed. The relationship between catches of longliners and sea
surface temperatures is reviewed in each ocean. The main biological characteristics of bigeye
tuna such as growth, sex ratio-at-size and natural mortality, estimated in the various oceans
are compared. Bigeye stock status and the recent changes in the stock assessment diagnosis
done by the different tuna agencies, following the recent increases of catches, are examined
and discussed. Present limitations and uncertainties on the real stock status of bigeye
worldwide are discussed. It is concluded that despite more active research developed
worldwide during recent years on bigeye tunas, the assessment and prospects for management
of these heavily exploited stocks remain widely uncertain and an increasing source of concern.

16/1151: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evaluationoftheperformanceandrobustnessofvpabasedstockassessmentandmsybasedmanagementstrategytoprocesserrortheatlanticbluefintunacasestudy> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Evaluation of the performance and robustness of VPA-based stock assessment and MSY-based management strategy to process error : The Atlantic bluefin tuna case study
An integrative simulation framework was built to evaluate the consequences of variability attributable to changes in carrying capacity or the stock's migration pattern of Atlantic bluefin tuna on the ICCAT stock assessment and management procedures. We also evaluated the performances of stock assessment methods with respect to their ability to provide good estimates of MSY, FMSY and BMSY and tested the robustness of the current ICCAT management strategy to uncertainty about the true dynamics and historical exploitation levels. The results clearly indicate that the VPA performances were seriously impaired if the long-term variations in catches are due to changes in migration/availability. There is further considerable confounding between the underlying dynamics and increasing effort that makes it difficult to draw any inference about the actual dynamics based on commercial catch data. Reference points based on F (e.g., F0.1) were less biased and more precise than those based on yield and/or SSB and were also more robust to uncertainty about the true dynamics than absolute values of F and SSB. However, F0.1 cannot indicate past and current levels of exploitation relative to FMSY when there is uncertainty about the dynamics. Therefore, while reference points such as F0.1 may be good proxies for FMSY, the MSY concept may be difficult to make operational. A size limit strategy generates greater yields than the more sophisticated F0.1, but lower SSB. However, the performances of both strategies were strongly dependent on the period over which they are implemented relative to the intrinsic cycle of the population. We finally stressed that the performances and robustness of management strategies also depend on concrete objectives, such as fleet composition, gear selectivity and economic constraints.

17/1152: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteontheyearlycatchesbycountryandgearofthefismfranceivorycoastsenegalmoroccofleetduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Note on the yearly catches by country and gear of the FISM (France - Ivory Coast - Senegal - Morocco) fleet during the 1969-1990 period
The current ICCAT Task 1 statistics database does not include any record of catch for Senegal and Ivory Coast during the period 1969-1990 as these data were historically included in the aggregated catch data of the so-called “FISM” fleet under the flag ‘EC.France'. Landing and logbook data were used to reallocate the FISM fleet catch between countries. This analysis shows the need to clarify the Task 1 ICCAT statistics by country and historic gear, and ask France, Ivory Coast and Senegal to declare their respective catch during 1969-1990. This change in the ICCAT database will not affect the total catch of Task 1 statistics.

18/1153: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/tunamovementpatternspresentlyshownintheindianoceanbytagrecoveriesfromtheiottptaggingprogram> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Tuna movement patterns presently shown in the Indian Ocean by tag recoveries from the IOTTP tagging program
This paper examines the movement patterns shown by the recoveries of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tagged by dart tags during the IOTTP large scale tagging. This analysis is based on a large number of 6236 recoveries belonging to the 3 species. These 3 species show similar movement patterns, and these recovered tunas, tagged in a limited number of peculiar areas, are showing very wide and very fast movement patterns, skipjack being the more mobile species. As a result, the recoveries of the 3 species have been widely scattered in the entire fishing zone of purse seiners, a fishery with large catches and with very good reporting of tags recoveries. This rather extreme mobility of the tagged tunas is quite unique world wide and it remains widely  unexplained. This study also shows and discusses the strange lack of significant recoveries by the Maldivian skipjack fisheries. It also confirms the insufficient rate of tag reporting by longliners and by various coastal fisheries, that are still presently limiting the knowledge of the real movement patterns at a larger scale of yellowfin and bigeye in their global Indian Ocean habitat.

19/1154: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/outlookofoceanclimatevariabilityinthewesttropicalindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Outlook of ocean climate variability in the West tropical Indian Ocean, 1997‐2008
The trend of the major environmental parameters during the decade 1997‐200 is presented. The decade analysed is characterized by two large anomalous events related to the Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) events that dramatically reduced the catch rates of the purse seine fleets in the West Indian Ocean (WIO). During the IOD events, the WIO shows above normal sea surface temperature, deeper than normal thermocline and depleted chlorophyll concentration, denoting unfavourable foraging conditions in the surface layer. The most recent IOD event (2006‐2007) did not reach the magnitude of that of 1997‐98 but purse seine catches declined sharply from the previous years. Such a decline is undoubtedly related to anomalous environmental conditions affecting catchability, but the hypothesis of a reduced biomass after some years of very high catches may be an additional reason to this decline.

20/1155: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/changesinfoodwebstructureunderscenariosofoverfishinginthesouthernbenguelacomparisonoftheecosimandosmosemodellingapproaches> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Changes in food web structure under scenarios of overfishing in the southern Benguela: comparison of the Ecosim and OSMOSE modelling approaches
Ecosystem models provide a platform allowing exploration into the possible responses of marine food webs to fishing pressure and various potential management decisions. In this study we investigate the particular effects of overfishing on the structure and function of the southern Benguela food web, using two models with different underlying assumptions: the spatialized, size-based individual-based model, OSMOSE, and the trophic mass-balance model, Ecopath with Ecosim (EwE). Starting from the same reference state of the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem during the 1990s, we compare the response of the food web to scenarios of overfishing using these two modelling approaches. A scenario of increased fishing mortality is applied to two distinct functional groups: i) two species of Cape hake, representing important target predatory fish, and ii) the forage species anchovy, sardine and redeye. In these simulations, fishing mortality on the selected functional groups is doubled for 10 years, followed by 10 years at the initial fishing mortality. We compare the food web states before the increase of fishing mortality, after 10 years of overfishing and after a further 10 years during which fishing was returned to initial levels. In order to compare the simulated food web structures with the reference state, and between the two modelling approaches, we use a set of trophic indicators: the mean trophic level of the community and in catches, the trophic pyramid (biomass per discrete trophic level), and the predatory/forage fish biomass ratio. OSMOSE and EwE present globally similar results for the trophic functioning of the ecosystem under fishing pressure: the biomass of targeted species decreases whereas that of their potential competitors increases. The reaction of distant species is more diverse, depending on the feeding links between the compartments. The mean trophic level of the community does not vary enough to be used for assessing ecosystem impacts of fishing, and the mean trophic level in the catch displays a surprising increase due to the short period of overfishing. The trophic pyramids behave in an unexpected way compared to trophic control theory, because at least two food chains with different dynamics are intertwined within the food web. We emphasize the importance of biomass information at the species level for interpreting dynamics in aggregated indicators, and we highlight the importance of competitive groups when looking at ecosystem functioning under fishing disturbance. Finally, we discuss the results within the scope of differences between models, in terms of the way they are formulated, spatial dimensions, predation formulations and the representation of fish life cycles.

21/1156: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethonierefrancaisedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière française durant la période 1991- 2006
This document presents a statistical summary of the fleet activity of the French baitboats and purse
seiners from 1991 to 2006. The historical data for the FIS6 fleet from 1969 to 1990 was described in a
previous document (Diouf et Fonteneau 1997). The data from that document have been revised and
completed for 2006. The document gives information on the fleet characteristics (fishing type by
category, in number), fishing effort by type and size category of the vessels, the number of 1o areas
visited by the fleet per year during the period, the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for
the baitboats and purse seiners, as well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three
species and for the two gears, and the average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear).
The species breakdown of the catches in 2006 is provisional and should be subject to verification. Some
fishing maps area also presented indicating the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic, as well as the
time-area breakdown of the French baitboat and purse seine catches in 2006, as compared to the
average of 2001-2005.

22/1157: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/indicatorsofsustainablefishingforsouthafricansardinesardinopssagaxandanchovyengraulisencrasicolus> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Indicators of sustainable fishing for South African sardine Sardinops sagax and anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus
Six indicators were investigated for South African sardine Sardinops sagax and anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus: mean length of catch, length-at-50% maturity, total mortality, exploitation rate, ratio of bycatch, and centre of gravity of commercial catches. Sardine length-at-50% maturity is  the most promising as a descriptive indicator because it is positively correlated with population  size for an extensive time period (1953–2005). The remaining indicators were limited by shorter data-series (1984–2005). However, mean length of catch, ratio of bycatch and exploitation rate  were found to be useful when considered in conjunction with other indicators. The centre of gravity of commercial sardine catches has shown a significant eastward shift from the West Coast, whereas that of anchovy has remained off that coast. Ratio of bycatch indicates that school composition is a reliable descriptive indicator of relative abundance in the two species. Fewer indicators for anchovy were useful, which is attributed to this species' flexible life-history pattern.

23/1158: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/historicaldatabaseonsoviettunalonglinetunaresearchintheindianandatlanticoceansfirstresultsofyugnironmfsdatarescueproject> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Historical database on Soviet tuna longline tuna research in the Indian and Atlantic oceans (first results of YugNIRO-NMFS data rescue project)
YugNIRO (formerly AzCherNIRO, till 1988), Kerch, Ukraine started tuna research in the Indian Ocean in early 1960-ies and such studies continued till early 1990-ies. For research purposes medium-sized fishing trawlers converted for pelagic longlining were used. Recent data inventory accounted about 130 research, searching, and fishing pelagic longline cruises for 1961-1989 targeted tunas (generally Thunnus), billfishes (Makaira, Tetrapturus, Xiphias gladius), pelagic sharks (Carcharhinus, Isurus, Alopias, Prionace glauca, Galeocerdo cuvier). Other pelagic species were recorded as bycatch. More than 5200 longline sets with about 2.5 millions nominal hooks were shot. For every research cruise the following data were colleted on set by set basis: number of hooks, hooks distribution by depth, total catch, and catch by species. Almost all the fish caught were measured, weighed, and analyzed. Estimated catch depth of every fish was recorded. Environmental data and MBT station data generally available. Due to lack of computer equipment and limited funding throughout years of data sampling this valuable data were stored on paper as logbooks of longline catches and biological analysis. In spite the careful treatment by YugNIRO personnel, there were a danger of loss for these unique data due to natural deterioration of media under time impact, accidents, natural disasters, other extraordinary situations, etc. In late 2002 under support of NMFS and NFWF data “rescue” project which principal goals were preparation of computer database and make this data available for joint YugNIRO/SWFSC analysis and for IOTC and ICCAT was started. “Rescue” is carried out by digitizing of the data, which exist only as manuscripts, in order to store them on computer media in the form of relational database. This project is at the final stage at presents, since most of the data available are in the digital form. These data represent unique dataset for Indian Ocean which could be used as an independent long-term biological and fisheries database as well as additional information to databases of IPTP/IOTC and national databases of other research center. Data and database description, database structure, first results of the database creation, data digitizing, and analyses, and potential access to the data is presented in this paper.

24/1159: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/potentialbiasinmultispeciessamplingofpurseseinercatches> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Potential bias in multispecies sampling of purse seiner catches
This paper discusses the various potential biases associated with species and size sampling carried out in the AtlanticOcean during landings of purse seiners. This paper is a follow- up of the 4th meeting of the WCPFC Scientific Committee during which there were serious doubts expressed upon the bias faced by the sampling schemes used in the Atlantic since 1980. The conclusion of the paper is that the sampling scheme currently used in the Atlantic appears to be consistent and satisfactory, but that minor potential biases in this sampling should be better identified and reduced by improvements in the current sampling and data processing. It is recommended that an international working group is organized to identify these uncertainties and to improve the multispecies sampling schemes and the data processing of their results.

25/1160: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofyellowfinthunnusalbacarestunastocksfisheriesandstockstatusworldwide> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : An overview of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) tuna stocks, fisheries and stock status worldwide
This paper makes a comparison of yellowfin
stocks worldwide, taking into account the biology of the
species as estimated in each ocean and the changes and
trends in the yellowfin fisheries observed in each ocean. This
paper presents and discusses a wide range of data and
figures comparing yellowfin stocks and fisheries in the four
« oceans », namely the Atlantic, Indian, Eastern and Western
Pacific. It shows an overview of the changes observed in each
ocean for the main yellowfin fisheries, longliners and purse
seiners: sizes of area fished, CPUE, changes in size
distribution and average weights, etc. The major biological
parameters estimated in each ocean by scientists, such as
natural mortality at age, spawning, sex ratio and growth are
presented and discussed. The methods used to assess
yellowfin stocks and the methodological uncertainties in the
yellowfin stock assessment are compared and discussed. The
conclusion is that it remains difficult to fully understand if the
increased catches of yellowfin observed world wide in most
oceans should be explained (1) by the effects of increasing
fishing zones, (2) by increased fishing effort and/or increased
fishing efficiency (3) and/or by increased biological productivity
of oceans or by a combination of these parameters. The
serious uncertainty in the understanding of the real
relationship between the longline and purse seine fisheries are
also discussed.

26/1161: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/standardizedcpueforjuvenileyellowfinskipjackandbigeyetunafromtheeuropeanpurseseinefleetintheatlanticoceanfromto> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Standardized CPUE for juvenile yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tunafrom the european purse seine fleet in the atlantic ocean from 1991 to 2006
In this document three abundance indices are obtained for the juveniles of tropical tunas (yellowfin (≤30Kg.), skipjack and bigeye of European purse seine fishery in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006 using generalized linear models (delta-lognormal model). Catch and effort data come from detailed daily logbooks. Catch rates are modelled using the delta lognormal model. The method estimates a combined CPUE of the three species from aggregated catches, and the proportion of catches for each species, so the final individual abundance indices are calculated multiplying both estimators for each species. Explanatory variables used in the analysis are: year, zone, quarter, harvest capacity, country, and starting date of the vessel. Year and zone are the most explanatory factors of variability in CPUEs and vessel characteristics have a minor explanatory effect in observed catch rates.

27/1162: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/madepreliminaryinformationonanewecprojecttoproposemeasurestomitigateadverseimpactsofopenoceanfisheriestargetinglargepelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : MADE: preliminary information on a new EC project to propose measures to mitigate adverse impacts of open ocean fisheries targeting large pelagic fish
A particular attention has been paid worldwide on longline fisheries as they catch considerable amount of by-catch (seabirds, turtles, sharks, etc.). Seabird and turtles by-catch mitigation methods have now been established in many fisheries worldwide, but similar efforts must be put to reduce by-catch of sharks. In the same ecosystems, another issue attracts the attention of international tuna commissions: the use of drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs). These FADs are responsible for major catches of juvenile tuna and non target pelagic species (sharks). Finally, the effects of thousands of FADs released regularly in the tropical oceans are unknown, and must be studied to estimate if they impact the biology of pelagic species. The European open ocean tropical and Mediterranean pelagic fishery (Spain, France, Portugal, Italy, Greece) is one of the main sources of catch, income and employment for the European fishery, with interactions with many developing countries. The MADE project was set up to develop measures to mitigate adverse impacts of fisheries targeting large pelagic fish in the open ocean: purse seiners using FADs and longliners. This 4-year project, started in mid-2008 within the 7th EC Framework Programme, and is a cooperative research carried out under the coordination of IRD, including 13 scientific institutions belonging to 6 European Countries and 2 ICPC countries in three different areas (Mediterranean Sea, Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean). Two main categories of mitigation measures will be studied: spatial management issues (e.g. closure areas) and technical solutions to reduce by-catch in these fisheries. The main concept of MADE is to follow a multi-disciplinary and comparative approach, combining biological and technological studies with economical analyses in different sites (Indian and Atlantic oceans, Mediterranean Sea), with a particular effort to closely associate fishers.

28/1163: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysingmultipletimeseriesandextendingsignificancetestinginwaveletanalysis> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Analysing multiple time series and extending significance testing in wavelet analysis
In nature, non-stationarity is rather typical, but the number of statistical tools allowing for non-stationarity remains rather limited. Wavelet analysis is such a tool allowing for non-stationarity but the lack of an appropriate test for statistical inference as well as the difficulty to deal with multiple time series are 2 important shortcomings that limits its use in ecology. We present 2 approaches to deal with these shortcomings. First, we used 1/f beta models to test cycles in the wavelet spectrum against a null hypothesis that takes into account the highly autocorrelated nature of ecological time series. To illustrate the approach, we investigated the fluctuations in bluefin tuna trap catches with a set of different null models. The 1/f beta models approach proved to be the most consistent to discriminate significant cycles. Second, we used the maximum covariance analysis to compare, in a quantitative way, the time-frequency patterns (i.e. the wavelet spectra) of numerous time series. This approach built cluster trees that grouped the wavelet spectra according to their time-frequency patterns. Controlled signals and time series of sea surface temperature (SST) in the Mediterranean Sea were used to test the ability and power of this approach. The results were satisfactory and clusters on the SST time series displayed a hierarchical division of the Mediterranean into a few homogeneous areas that are known to display different hydrological and oceanic patterns. We discuss the limits and potentialities of these methods to study the associations between ecological and environmental fluctuations.

29/1164: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thedynamicsofcollapseinworldfisheries> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : The dynamics of collapse in world fisheries
The fear of a rapid depletion of world fish stocks because of over-exploitation is increasing. Analysis of 1519 main series of the FAO world fisheries catch database over the last 50 years reveals that 366 fisheries' collapses occurred, that is nearly one fishery of four. The robustness of this result is tested by performing several complementary analyses using different conservative options. The number of collapses has been stable through time since 1950s indicating no improvement in the overall fisheries management. Three typical patterns emerge from the analysis of catch series during the period preceding the collapses: smooth collapse (33%), i.e. a long regular decline, erratic collapse (45%), i.e. a fall after several ups and downs, and a plateau-shaped collapse (21%), i.e. a sudden fall after a relatively long and stable persistence of high level of catches. Using a simple mathematical model, we relate the plateau-shaped collapses (which are, by nature, the most difficult to predict) to surreptitiously increasing exploitation and a depensatory mechanism at low population levels. Thus, a stable level of catch over several years is shown to conceal the risk of a sudden collapse. This jeopardizes the common assumption that considers the stability of catch as a goal for fisheries sustainability.

30/1165: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/timeseriesanalysisoftunaandswordfishcatchesandclimatevariabilityintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Time series analysis of tuna and swordfish catches and climate variability in the Indian Ocean (1968-2003)
We analysed the patterns of variation that characterize 33 catch time series of large pelagic fishes exploited by the Japanese and Taiwanese longline fisheries in the Indian Ocean from 1968 to 2003. We selected four species, the yellowfin (Thunnus albacares), the bigeye (T. obesus), the albacore (T. alalunga), and the swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and aggregated data into five biogeographic provinces of Longhurst (2001).We carried out wavelet analyses, an efficient method to study non-stationary time series, in order to get the time-scale patterns of each signals. We then compared and grouped the different wavelet spectra using a multivariate analysis to identify the factors (species, province or fleet) that may influence their clustering. We also investigated the associations between catch time series and a large-scale climatic index, the DipoleMode Index (DMI), using cross wavelet analyses. Our results evidenced that the geographical province is more important than the species level when analyzing the 33 catch time series in the tropical Indian Ocean. The DMI further impacted the variability of tuna and swordfish catch time series at several periodic bands and at different temporal locations, and we demonstrated that the geographic locations modulated its impact.We discussed the consistency of time series fluctuations that reflect embedded information and complex interactions between biological processes, fishing strategies and environmental variability at different scales.

31/1166: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/simulationsoffishingeffectsonthesouthernbenguelafishcommunityusinganindividualbasedmodellearningfromacomparisonwithecosim> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Simulations of fishing effects on the southern benguela fish community using an individual-based model: learning from a comparison with ECOSIM
By applying an individual-based model (OSMOSE) to the southern Benguela ecosystem, a multispecies analysis is proposed, complementary to that provided by the application of ECOPATH/ECOSIM models. To reconstruct marine foodwebs, OSMOSE is based on the hypothesis that predation is a size-structured process. In all, 12 fish species, chosen for their importance in terms of biomass and catches, are explicitly modelled. Growth, reproduction and mortality parameters are required to model their dynamics and trophic interactions. Maps of mean spatial distribution of the species are compiled from published literature. Taking into account the spatial component is necessary because spatial co-occurrence determines potential interactions between predatory fish and prey fish of suitable size. To explore ecosystem effects of fishing, different fishing scenarios, previously examined using ECOSIM, are simulated using the OSMOSE model. They explore the effects of targeting fish species in the southern Benguela considered to be predators (Cape hake Merluccius capensis and M. paradoxus) or prey (anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus, sardine Sardinops sagax, round herring Etrumeus whiteheadi). Simulation results are compared and are generally consistent with those obtained using an ECOSIM model. This cross-validation appears to be a promising means of evaluating the robustness of model outputs, when separate validation of marine ecosystem models are still difficult to perform.

32/1167: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystemparticomparingtrophiclinkagesunderlaninaandelninoconditions> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part I: Comparing trophic linkages under La Niña and El Niño conditions
The El Niño of 1997–98 was one of the strongest warming events of the past century; among many other effects, it impacted phytoplankton along the Peruvian coast by changing species composition and reducing biomass. While responses of the main fish resources to this natural perturbation are relatively well known, understanding the ecosystem response as a whole requires an ecotrophic multispecies approach. In this work, we construct trophic models of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem (NHCE) and compare the La Niña (LN) years in 1995–96 with the El Niño (EN) years in 1997–98. The model area extends from 4°S–16°S and to 60 nm from the coast. The model consists of 32 functional groups of organisms and differs from previous trophic models of the Peruvian system through: (i) division of plankton into size classes to account for EN-associated changes and feeding preferences of small pelagic fish, (ii) increased division of demersal groups and separation of life history stages of hake, (iii) inclusion of mesopelagic fish, and (iv) incorporation of the jumbo squid (Dosidicus gigas), which became abundant following EN. Results show that EN reduced the size and organization of energy flows of the NHCE, but the overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators, detritus and export) of the ecosystem was maintained. The reduction of diatom biomass during EN forced omnivorous planktivorous fish to switch to a more zooplankton-dominated diet, raising their trophic level. Consequently, in the EN model the trophic level increased for several predatory groups (mackerel, other large pelagics, sea birds, pinnipeds) and for fishery catch. A high modeled biomass of macrozooplankton was needed to balance the consumption by planktivores, especially during EN condition when observed diatoms biomass diminished dramatically. Despite overall lower planktivorous fish catches, the higher primary production required-to-catch ratio implied a stronger ecological impact of the fishery and stresses the need for precautionary management of fisheries during and after EN. During EN energetic indicators such as the lower primary production/total biomass ratio suggest a more energetically efficient ecosystem, while reduced network indicators such as the cycling index and relative ascendency indicate of a less organized state of the ecosystem. Compared to previous trophic models of the NHCE we observed: (i) a shrinking of ecosystem size in term of energy flows, (ii) slight changes in overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators and detritus), and (iii) the use of alternate pathways leading to a higher ecological impact of the fishery for planktivorous fish.

33/1168: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/esessioniotc> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : 8e session IOTC
The number of hooks between floats (HBF) is classically considered in standardization studies of the longline fishing effort as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. The explanation of this choice is easy for understanding : an increase of the HBF (then an increase of the length of the mainline between floats represents a increase in fishing depths. Probably, this relationship has been valid for traditional longlines until the end of eighties. However, the modernization of the fishing gear (monofilament mainline, shooter, snaps) has considerably modified the tradition and has led to a wide diversification of setting tactics. As a related consequence of this modernization, HBF has lost his property as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. In this work, we show briefly why the relationship between HPB and the maximum fishing depth is artificial. This hypothesis is supported from a comparative analysis of temporal series of the average HBF and the weight contribution of albacore and bigeye in catches. This fact underlines the problem of the use of HBF in the frame of the measure of the effective fishing effort in longline fisheries (GLM approach). In this context, the necessity of additional information characterizing longlining strategies is discussed.

34/1169: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/reproductivedynamicsofswordfishxiphiasgladiusinthesouthwesternindianoceanreunionislandpartoocytedevelopmentsexualmaturityandspawning> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean (Reunion Island). Part 1: oocyte development, sexual maturity and spawning
The reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) was investigated from catches of the Reunion Island-based longline swordfish fishery between 19-25 degrees S and 48-54 degrees E. Thus, 1727 swordfish (size range 75-289 cm, lower jaw-to-fork length, LJFL) were sampled on board commercial fishing vessels during the period of May 1998 to January 2001. Reproductive activity was assessed using macroscopic gonad characteristics, trends of gonadal indexes for both sexes, oocyte size-frequency distributions and microscopic investigation of oocyte development stages. Size at first maturity (L-50) for female and male swordfish was estimated in Indian Ocean for the first time. L50 was estimated at 170 cm and 120 cm (LJFL) for females and males, respectively. Spawning occurred from October to April in the vicinity of Reunion Island where sex ratio of caught populations fluctuated seasonally. The seasonal changes in sex ratio and the incidence of larger individuals at the beginning of the spawning season provide some preliminary indications of synchronized movements of swordfish between spawning grounds and neighboring regions. Our results add significantly to knowledge about the reproductive biology of swordfish in the southwestern Indian Ocean. An overview of the available information on reproductive biology and dynamics of swordfish in Indian Ocean and eastern Pacific indicated that spawning activity is localized in discrete areas, and showed that there is incomplete information on spawning grounds in this extended area.

35/1170: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethonierefisdurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière FIS durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary of FIS6 baitboat and purse seine fleet activities
from 1991 to 2004. The historical data from 1969 to 1990 were described in a previous
document (Diouf and Fonteneau 1997). The data collected from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2004. The document provides indications regarding fleet
characteristics (type of gear by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category of
the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for baitboats and purse seiners, as well as
the catches by different size classes by quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, and the average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic, as well as the time-area
breakdown of French purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average situation of 1999-
2004.

36/1171: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fadiofishaggregatingdevicesasintrumentedobservatoriesofpelagicecosystemsaeuropeanunionfundedprojectondevelopmentofnewobservationalinstrumentsandthebehavioroffisharoundfads> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : FADIO (Fish Aggregating Devices as Intrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) : a European Union funded project on development of new observational instruments and the behavior of fish around FADs
Associative behavior is a major component of the life of pelagic fish. Tropical tuna and other
species are often found in association with floating objects, with other animals, and with topographic
features such as seamounts. Because fish are more abundant, occur in larger schools, or are easier to catch
when aggregated, fishermen extensively use these associations to increase their catches. More than 50%
of the world tuna catches are made from schools associated with floating objects.
There is a clear need for new technologies to study these associations and to propose innovative
methods of management. The European Union has funded a project to study the requirements of future
assessment tools and to develop prototypes. The project: FADIO1 (Fish Aggregating Devices as
Instrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) has conducted five extensive field surveys of the
Western Indian Ocean in conjunction with the large-scale purse seine fishery operating on drifting FADs
that operates in this region.
The objectives of FADIO are to develop new observation and assessment tools and collect data
on the behavior of pelagic fish around drifting FADs. Two categories of instruments are being developed
in collaboration with manufacturers: (1) autonomous buoys equipped with 360º sonar and cameras to
observe aggregations, acoustic receivers to detect individuals carrying electronic tags and satellite uplinks
for both, (2) new electronic tags with ecological sensors. Various field experiments are conducted to
assist in the development of these prototypes. During these scientific cruises, different instruments and
methods are used to document the behavior of associated species concurrently resident on the same FAD,
including: fishing and acoustic tagging, passive and active acoustic surveys, and underwater visual
census. Those observations, combined together, provide valuable insights in the dynamics of FAD
aggregations.
These instruments can be used in the future (i) to build the foundation for future observatories of
pelagic ecosystems, using FADs as scientific platforms for observation and data collection, (ii) to
understand the effects of FADs on tuna and other associated species, even in remote areas, (iii) to help
reducing by-catch around FADs. FADIO began in 2003 and will end in Oct. 2006, with an exposition and
workshop at the Oceanographic Museum in Monaco.

37/1172: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 1.0637529
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of European and assimilated6
baitboat and purse seine fleets from 1991 to 2004. The data from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2003. The document provides information regarding fleet
characteristics (type of fishing by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category
of the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as
well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, as well as average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic as well as the time-area
breakdown of European and assimilated purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average
situation of 1999-2003.

38/1173: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 1.0637529
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of European and assimilated6
baitboat and purse seine fleets from 1991 to 2004. The data from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2003. The document provides information regarding fleet
characteristics (type of fishing by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category
of the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as
well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, as well as average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic as well as the time-area
breakdown of European and assimilated purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average
situation of 1999-2003.

39/1174: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/speciescompositionoftunacatchestakenbypurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Species composition of tuna catches taken by purse seiners
This paper makes a presentation of the multi-species
size sampling that have been conducted in the Indian and
Atlantic oceans since the early eighties allowing to
estimate the average species and size composition of tuna
landings by pole and line vessels and purse seiners. The
paper further discusses the structural biases that are
expected when sampling the complex mixture of sizes and
species that are observed on FAD schools, when done by
observers. It advocates the necessity to sample these
catches using large scale port multispecies sampling
schemes. The data processing of these multi species
samples is also discussed, based the methods developed by
EU scientists in the Atlantic and Indian oceans. The paper
recommends promoting a unified sampling scheme of
purse seine landings in the WCP and a unified data
processing of these size and species samples. The final
recommendation of the paper would to process all the
WCP historical data of species composition using this new
method, and to promote as soon as possible in the WCP
such optimized sampling scheme, this sampling being
fully coordinated between IATTC and WCPFC at the
scale of the entire Pacific Ocean.



1203) Recherche du mot : objet flottant (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/objet_flottant)
1/1175: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/portfolioethologiepoissons> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Portfolio Ethologie: Poissons
N'importe quel objet flottant en pleine mer attire invariablement certaines espèces de poissons. Pour comprendre ce comportement, largement exploité par les pêcheurs, biologistes et ingénieurs inventent de nouvelles façons d'observer la faune marine.



1204) Recherche du mot : Lancetfishes nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alepisaurus_spp)


1205) Recherche du mot : estuaire (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/estuary)


1206) Recherche du mot : Lestrolepis intermedia (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lestrolepis_intermedia)


1207) Recherche du mot : Capture accessoire (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/bycatch)


1208) Recherche du mot : reef (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/reef)
1/1176: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragingofthegreenseaturtlecheloniamydasonseagrassbedsatmayotteislandindianoceandeterminedbyacoustictransmitters> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Foraging of the green sea turtle Chelonia mydas on seagrass beds at MayotteIsland (Indian Ocean), determined by acoustic transmitters
We studied the foraging rhythms of green sea turtles Chelonia mydas on the seagrass
beds of N'Gouja Bay, Mayotte Island (Comoros Archipelago) with acoustic transmitters and moored
listening stations. We monitored 8 tagged turtles (4 probable males, 3 probable females and 1 immature),
from 70 to 109 cm curved carapace length (CCL), for durations ranging from 5 to 92 d. The
turtles exhibited a regular diel pattern: they foraged mainly during the day (on average 87% of seagrass
detections were between 06:00 and 18:00 h) and rested on the inner reef slope during the night.
Night time feeding activities were observed on the seagrass bed when the night light was high. The
presence of turtles on the seagrass bed at night was significantly correlated with a night light index
(r = 0.54, p = 0.002), which included both moon light and cloudiness indices. Behaviour of the only
immature individual observed was similar to adult turtles, although it rested more frequently around
noon. All turtles displayed a high fidelity to 1 foraging site within the seagrass bed. Acoustic transmitters
and permanent listening stations are an appropriate technique for long-term behavioural
studies of turtles, with no human interaction with turtles during tracking, and represent a suitable
technique to assess the possible effects of environmental changes or human activities upon green
turtle behaviour.

2/1177: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/exploratorybehaviourofademersalfisharoundanartificialreefwithacousticmultitaggingthecaseoflutjanuskasmirainstpaulbayreunionislandindianocean> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Exploratory behaviour of a demersal fish around an artificial reef with acoustic multitagging : the case of Lutjanus kasmira in St-Paul bay (Reunion island / Indian Ocean)


3/1178: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicsignatureofcoralreeffishassemblagestowardsapotentialindicatorofecosystemdisturbance> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Trophic signature of coral reef fish assemblages: towards a potential indicator of ecosystem disturbance
Face to the increasing anthropogenic disturbances that affect coral reef ecosystems, it becomes urgent to define appropriate ecological indicators for monitoring purposes. One useful approach is to search for a simplified description of the structure of biological communities that are highly diverse and complex on coral reefs. To this end, we propose to represent the trophic structure of coral reef fish assemblages by using fractional trophic levels assigned to each fish species. Fish abundance trophic spectra (i.e., the distributions of fish abundance per trophic level) were established for the fringing reefs of two bays located in the city of Noumea (New Caledonia). The comparison of these trophic spectra revealed a similar trophic structure in the two bays, in spite of contrasted levels of fish abundance due to habitat damages. The embayment degree was characterized by changes in the fish trophic structure, reflecting a decreasing influence of urban and industrial wastes discharged in the bottom of the bays. This case of study shows the interest of using fractional trophic levels for the description of highly diverse biological communities. The trophic level-based approach offers new prospects in the search for ecological indicators, by characterizing the structure of biological communities by trophic signatures which testify to the disturbance level affecting their environment.

4/1179: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingfishcommunitiesassociatedwithdriftingfishaggregatingdevicesfadsinthewesternindianoceanusingunderwatervisualsurveys> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Characterizing fish communities associated with drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean using underwater visual surveys
We adapted a visual census method, mainly used in demersal and reef fish studies, to characterize fish communities associated to drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean. Drifting FAD associated fishes from both equatorial (Seychelles) and tropical waters (Reunion Island) were examined by divers. A total of 32 species (belonging to 16 families) were observed associated with drifting FADs in equatorial waters, and 24 species (14 families) were found around FADs in tropical waters. Twenty species were found in both regions. The highest number of species observed at a single FAD was 18 (12 ± 2, mean ± SD) in equatorial and 13 (10 ± 3) in tropical waters, not counting circumnatant species loosely associated with the FAD. Some species like Kyphosus vaigiensis, Canthidermis maculata, Elagatis bipinnulata, Acanthocybium solandri and Coryphaena hippurus were observed on all or most of the surveys. In this study, the contribution in biomass of the 18 common species associated with drifting FADs (but excluding circumnatant species), represents more than 98% of the biomass. The overall biomass values of closely associated species remains well below tuna biomass estimates for circumnatant tuna schools at FADs, estimated as high as 200 tons. The species that most significantly contribute to the by-catch in tuna purse-seines logically match those that showing the highest biomass values in our surveys (Carcharhinus spp., Elagatis bipinnulata, Coryphaena hippurus, Canthidermis maculata, and Acanthocybium solandri). One of the most abundant and ubiquitous species in our study was the spotted oceanic triggerfish Canthidermis maculata that sometimes formed massive schools of many thousands individuals around the drifting FADs. Future research is needed to explore the role of such non tuna species in the attraction and aggregation processes of tuna around drifting FADs.

5/1180: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thetrophicspectrumtheoryandapplicationasanecosystemindicator> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : The trophic spectrum: theory and application as an ecosystem indicator
Trophic spectra represent the distribution of biomass, abundance, or catch by trophic level, and may be used as indicators of the trophic structure and functioning of aquatic ecosystems in a fisheries context. As a theoretical background, we present a simple ecosystem model of biomass flow reflecting predation and ontogenetic processes. Biomass trophic spectrum of total biomass can be modelled as the result of three major factors and processes: trophic efficiency, transfer kinetics, and extent of top-down control. In the simulations, changes in the spectrum highlight fishing impacts on trophic structure and reveal some functional characteristics of the underlying ecosystem. As examples of potential applications, three case studies of trophic spectra are presented. Catch trophic spectra allow description of structural differences among European fishing areas and periods. Abundance trophic spectra of coral-reef fish assemblages display different trophic signatures, characterizing different reef habitats in New Caledonia and highlighting fishing effects in a marine protected area context. Biomass trophic spectra of demersal resources off Northwest Africa show a shift in ecosystem structure that can be attributed to the rapid increase in fishing pressure during the past few decades. Off Senegal, total biomass remained fairly constant, suggesting a strong top-down control linked to fisheries targeting high trophic level species. Off Guinea, exploitation rates are spread over a wider range of trophic levels, and the total biomass of demersal resources tended to decrease. The trophic spectrum is concluded to be a useful indicator describing and comparing systems in time and space, detecting phase shifts linked to natural or anthropogenic perturbations, and revealing differences in ecosystem functioning.

6/1181: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/visualcensusesoftropicalfishaggregationsonartificialreefsslateversusvideorecordingtechniques> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Visual censuses of tropical fish aggregations on artificial reefs: slate versus video recording techniques
Artificial coastal reefs were initially installed off Reunion Island (SW Indian Ocean) in order to attract and catch small pelagic fish of economic importance for the local fishery. These artificial reefs also attract a high density of juvenile coral reef fish, especially after recruitment. Because of high species richness and density, a suitable method of evaluating diversity and abundance in such assemblages is needed. An experiment was conducted in situ for 1 year in order to test which of the two visual techniques, slate or video recording, would be the most suitable for sampling artificial reefs. For the quantitative study, a rope framework (four belt transects each measuring 24×3 m) was used to ease the movement of the divers. To avoid bias due to time variations, the study was conducted under limited time in situ. The advantages and disadvantages of the two techniques regarding the accuracy of qualitative and quantitative results are discussed. The qualitative study results show that the slate technique is the most accurate one for determining species richness. In the quantitative study, factors such as species characteristics (ecological type), attractiveness (relationship between fish and diver) and abundance of fish communities around the artificial reefs appear to influence our results on the comparison of the two techniques. Of 13 [`]permanent' (observed in more than 75% of dives) species, 6 returned a similar frequency of detection by slate and video (Lutjanus kasmira, Lutjanus bengalensis, Priacanthus hamrur, Chaetodon kleinii, Heniochus diphreutes, Mulloides vanicolensis); these were then selected for comparison of the techniques using quantitative data. The correlation between video and slate census results is high, but, in comparison with the slate census, the video census underestimates abundance, especially for low values. A corrected index is proposed to remedy this underestimation; it could be used for video surveys conducted on species responding well to video detection (as below).



1209) Recherche du mot : flora (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/flora)


1210) Recherche du mot : Bacoreta (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/euthynnus_alleteratus)


1211) Recherche du mot : SKJ (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/katsuwonus_pelamis)
1/1182: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anupdatedanalysisoftagsheddingbytropicaltunasintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : An Updated Analysis of Tag-Shedding by Tropical Tunas in the Indian Ocean.
Tag shedding experiment was conducted during the Regional Tuna tagging
Project-Indian Ocean by double-tagging part of the tuna released (27,850
double tags with 4,650 recoveries) with the objective of assessing the tag
shedding rate (type-1 shedding (immediate shedding and tagging-induced
mortality) and tag-2 shedding (continuous shedding and tag-induced
mortality)). This rate was assessed by estimating α and λ of the probability
of tag retention equation Q(t) = α [β/(β+λt)]β). For SKJ α = 0.987, λ (per
year) = 0.015; for YFT α = 0.977, λ (per year) = 0.041 and for BET α =
0.996, λ (per year) = 0.024. These results are comparable to others obtained
from large-scale tropical tuna tagging project.



1212) Recherche du mot : Morus capensis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/morus_capensis)


1213) Recherche du mot : Raja spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/raja_spp)


1214) Recherche du mot : front (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/front)
1/1183: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingtheinfluenceofthermalstratificationandcompletemixingonthedistributionandfluxesofpolychlorinatedbiphenylsinthewatercolumnofisprabaylakemaggiore> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Modelling the influence of thermal stratification and complete mixing on the distribution and fluxes of polychlorinated biphenyls in the water column of Ispra Bay (Lake Maggiore)
A 1D coupled hydrodynamic and contaminant fate model was applied to simulate the distribution of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in the Ispra Bay located in the southern part of Lake Maggiore (Italy). The model succeeded in representing the hydrodynamic processes occurring in the lake such as thermal stratification during summer 2005 followed by the complete mixing of the water column in February 2006. The results of the PCB fate model highlighted that these processes play a key role for the settling of particles and consequently for the distribution of PCBs in the water column as well as for the contaminant flux at the sediment–water interface. On the air–water front, the simulations emphasised that the net atmospheric PCB input fluxes are generally more important during the cold season and show peaks during periods of high wet deposition. Finally, the seasonal variability of the distribution of PCB in the water column was assessed.
© 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

2/1184: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/chantiergolfedegascogne> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Chantier Golfe de gascogne
L'action des engins de pêche sur le fond a déjà été décrite, filmée. La comparaison de prélèvements dans le secteur de la Grande Vasière réalisés à 30 ans d'intervalle met en évidence une évolution de la faune et de la nature du fond (Le Loch, 2004). Mais peu de chiffres argumentés permettent de quantifier l'impact des engins de pêche sur le fond.
Cette étude pluridisciplinaire se base sur :
- une connaissance de la structure sédimentaire du plateau de la Grande Vasière,
- une analyse des phénomènes en jeu dans le cycle dépôt-remobilisation de la colonne sédimentaire (apports fluviaux, front thermo-halin, houle, courant, organismes fouisseurs,….),
- une typologie des engins de pêche utilisés sur le plateau et un descriptif (largeur balayée, enfoncement, …) de l'action de chacun des éléments (bourrelet, chaîne, bras, panneau)
- une sélection de l'effort de pêche 2003 pour 6 classes de longueur de navire, 9 carrés statistiques, 2 types d'engin (chalut simple ou jumeau) et 2 types de prises (langoustines ou non : différenciation des efforts focalisés sur la Grande Vasière de ceux également répartis dans les carrés statistiques ).
Les résultats portent sur la surface balayée et la quantité de sédiments fins remis en suspension. La paramétrisation des formules permet de tester l'influence de tels ou tels éléments dans le bilan global.
Ainsi chaque mètre carré de la Grande Vasière est balayé au minimum 6 fois par an. La remobilisation des sédiments fins par les engins de pêche est comparable à la remobilisation par les tempêtes.

3/1185: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howcansciencecontributetoanecosystemapproachtopelagicdemersalandrocklobsterfisheriesinsouthafrica> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : How can science contribute to an ecosystem approach to pelagic, demersal and rock lobster fisheries in South Africa?
South Africa is committed to moving towards an Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries (EAF) and has laid the foundations for this using a three-pronged approach: through a project (EAF Feasibility Study) under the Benguela Current Large Marine Ecosystem Programme; through a dedicated scientific working group established by the Marine and Coastal Management branch of South Africa's Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism; and through collaborative scientific and modelling studies within the joint French-South African ‘Upwelling Ecosystems' Programme. This contribution provides an overview of the progress made towards developing an EAF in South Africa, both on the scientific front in terms of improved understanding of the functioning of the Benguela ecosystem and the ways in which its ecosystem components interact, and regarding the practical ways being explored to enable scientific advice to feed in to South African fisheries management while taking into account broad stakeholder concerns. The paper focusses particularly on the role played by scientific contributions (research and monitoring) to address these ecosystem issues in three important South African fisheries — pelagic, demersal and rock lobster — so that the appropriate management measures can be put into place. Socio-economic concerns are included for the rock lobster fishery.

4/1186: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatiotemporalhabitatusebybreedingsootyshearwaterspuffinusgriseus> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Spatio-temporal habitat use by breeding sooty shearwaters Puffinus griseus
Breeding sooty shearwaters (Puffinus griseus) cycle between long (11-14 days) and short (1-2 days) foraging bouts at sea, but no information exists on bird behaviour during these trips. We tested the hypothesis that shearwaters use these long trips to travel to distant Antarctic waters compared to remaining in local waters. Patterns of habitat use of 28 breeding sooty shearwaters were studied using 6-g archival data loggers that recorded location, environmental temperature, and diving behaviour. Dive activity was compared to remotely-sensed environmental data to characterize the habitats visited by shearwaters on long and short trips. Indeed, sooty shearwaters traveled predominantly (70% of all long trips) to cold oceanic waters along the Polar Front (1,970 ± 930 km from colony) on long trips or remained within warmer neritic waters of the New Zealand shelf (515 ± 248 km from colony) on short trips. Diving depths (mean depth 15.9 ± 10.8 m, max depth 69.9 m, N = 2,007 dives) were not statistically different between excursion types. Activity patterns suggest that shearwaters commuted between distant foraging grounds (e.g., Polar Front) and the breeding colony and that more than 95% of diving activity occurred during daylight hours. Although shearwaters traveled primarily to Antarctic waters on long trips, occasional trips around New Zealand waters were observed; all but two birds were from the northern most study colony. Oceanic habitats in Antarctic waters were substantially different from neritic habitats around New Zealand indicating that shearwaters experience dramatically different environmental conditions associated with each excursion type. The ability of sooty shearwaters to utilize two vastly different habitats provides greater flexibility for maximizing resource acquisition during breeding and reduces competition near the colony

5/1187: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/alongshoreandtemporalvariabilityinchlorophyllaconcentrationinchileannearshorewaters> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Alongshore and temporal variability in chlorophyll a concentration in Chilean nearshore waters
Phytoplankton and particulate organic matter constitute the primary food source for adult filter-feeders, as well as for larval stages of many benthic and pelagic organisms. The structure and dynamics of nearshore benthic communities may be associated with variation in nearshore primary production. However, we know little about the scales of variability in phytoplankton in nearshore waters along open coasts, or about their causes. To characterize spatial and temporal patterns of chl a concentration, we conducted 2.5 yr of daily, shore-based monitoring at 3 sites separated by 10s of km within an upwelling region in central Chile. We found that: (1) peaks in chl a concentration were typically short-lived, persisting no longer than 4 d, (2) blooms occurred in spring to early summer months at all sites, but also during autumn months at 1 site (Las Cruces), and (3) the intensity and frequency of blooms were consistently different among sites; highest concentrations were at Las Cruces, lower at El Quisco, and the lowest at Quintay. Analyses of wind data and surface temperature, and inspection of Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) satellite images, suggested that among-site differences were due, at least in part, to alongshore variation in upwelling intensity and the formation of warm-water pockets or upwelling shadows in sections of the coast, such as Las Cruces. In contrast to the spatial pattern described offshore and over larger spatial scales, chl a concentrations were significantly lower at the coldest site, Quintay, located at the core of an upwelling center (Pta. Curaumilla), than at the warmer site of Las Cruces, which lies downstream from upwelling. Day-to-day variation in chl a levels during spring at Las Cruces seems related to the alongshore intrusion of waters upwelled upstream. Overall, the pattern observed at our 3 sites, together with previous studies at other upwelling systems, suggests that sections of the coast around 15 to 20 km downstream (equatorward) from upwelling centers could exhibit consistently higher phytoplankton concentrations than sites located in front of upwelling centers, generating a source-sink type of geographic pattern of nearshore nutrients and phytoplankton along the coast.

6/1188: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thermalandtrophichabitatsoftheleatherbackturtleduringthenestingseasoninfrenchguiana> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Thermal and trophic habitats of the leatherback turtle during the nesting season in French Guiana
Understanding environmental cues determining behaviour and habitat use of species of conservation
concern is crucial if one aims at implementing sustainable management of these natural resources. In this
way, here, we investigate the thermal and trophic conditions encountered by the critically endangered
leatherback sea turtle Dermochelys coriacea during its nesting season in French Guiana where high bycatch
rates have been reported.
Mean sea water temperatures obtained in situ by animal-borne recorders were 26.6±0.7 °C in the water
column, with all but one turtle remaining in water N25 °C during the inter-nesting interval. In terms of prey
availability, regular jellyfish stranding events were recorded during the nesting season, on a 1.25-km long
section of the nesting beach. The occurrence of jellyfish was supported by benthic trawls performed on the
continental shelf, with a total of 45.4 kg of jellyfish collected in 3.5 h exclusively in coastal waters 10 to 20 m
deep where water transparency was between 0.8 and 3 m. This is consistent with the at sea distribution area
of gravid leatherbacks during their inter-nesting intervals, as they spent almost 70% of their time diving in
shallow (b20 m deep) waters in front of the Maroni River estuary. In French Guiana, leatherback's gelatinous
prey are thus present in very shallow water close to the nesting site and may be easily exploited by active
gravid leatherbacks. This suggests that French Guiana female leatherbacks may be influenced by local trophic
conditions and actively prospect productive areas overlapping with local fisheries ground.

7/1189: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/phytoplanktondistributionintheagulhassystemfromacoupledphysicalbiologicalmodel> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Phytoplankton distribution in the Agulhas system from a coupled physical-biological model
The greater Agulhas Current system has several components with high mesoscale turbulence. The phytoplankton distribution in the southwest Indian Ocean reflects this activity. We have used a regional eddy-permitting, coupled physical-biological model to study the physical-biological interactions and to address the main processes responsible for phytoplankton distribution in three different biogeochemical provinces: the southwest Subtropical Indian Gyre (SWSIG), the subtropical convergence zone (SCZ) and the subantarctic waters (SAW) south of South Africa. The biological model with four compartments (Nitrate-Phytoplankton-Zooplankton-Detritus) adequately reproduces the observed field of chlorophyll a. The phase of the strong modelled seasonality in the SWSIG is opposite to that of the SCZ that forms the southern boundary of the subtropical gyre. Phytoplankton concentrations are governed by the source-minus-sink terms, which are one order of magnitude greater than the dynamical diffusion and advection terms. North of 35°S, in the SWSIG, phytoplankton growth is limited by nutrients supply throughout the year. However, deeper stratification, enhanced cross-frontal transport and higher detritus remineralization explain the simulated higher concentrations of phytoplankton found in winter in the SWSIG. The region between 35° and 40S constitutes a transition zone between the SCZ and the oligotrophic subtropical province. Horizontal advection is the main process bringing nutrients for phytoplankton growth. The front at 34 °S represents a dynamical barrier to an extension further to the north of this advection of nutrients. Within the SCZ, primary production is high during spring and summer. This high productivity depletes the nutrient standing stock built up during winter time. In winter, nutrients supply in the convergence zone is indeed large, but the deep mixing removes phytoplankton from the euphotic zone and inhibits photosynthesis, yielding lower surface chlorophyll a concentrations. Waters south of the Subantarctic Front have a summer biomass close to that of frontal waters and higher than for subtropical waters. However, these simulated concentrations are slightly higher than the observed ones suggesting that limitation by iron and/or silica may play a role.



1215) Recherche du mot : King mackerel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_cavalla)


1216) Recherche du mot : Pota planeadora (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ornithoteuthis_volatilis)


1217) Recherche du mot : caldeira (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/caldera)


1218) Recherche du mot : ecological process (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ecological_process)


1219) Recherche du mot : Alepisaurus spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alepisaurus_spp)


1220) Recherche du mot : Grammistes sexlineatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/grammistes_sexlineatus)


1221) Recherche du mot : Fishery (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fishery)
1/1190: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/arenaturalandfishingmortalitiescomparablefortropicaltunasamultispeciesapproachwithtaggingdata> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Are natural and fishing mortalities comparable for tropical tunas ? A multispecies approach with tagging data
With the aim of increasing the precision of parameter estimates in tagging analyses, we assumed that the dynamics of tagged fish from different tropical tuna species have processes in common. With this consideration in mind we fit different data sets from two distinct periods of the eastern Atlantic fishery with a multispecies tag-attrition model to provide information for the shared parameters. Among the different assumptions considered, a common attrition rate for the three species of tropical tuna (yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tuna) was not supported by the data under the AIC criteria. However the estimates of the attrition rate for yellowfin and for skipjack were relatively close. On the basis of these preliminary results, it would be interesting to check in the future the accuracy of a common type-1 tag losses (i.e., α) between tagging periods/locations or between species with more complete data sets. Given the limitations of the data and accounting for model uncertainties, it was shown that the Z coefficient was increased by a factor 4.5 for yellowfin from the first period of time (1980-1981) to the second one (1996- 2002). For skipjack and bigeye tuna this increase reached 3.4 and 3.2, respectively. One explanation may result from the increasing use of FADs fishing operations in the tropical surface fishery.

2/1191: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/movementsoftropicaltunasfromthetunaassociatedbaitboatfisheryofdakarandfrombetypandhistoricaltaggingoperationsintheatlanticocean> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Movements of tropical tunas from the tuna-associated baitboat fishery of Dakar and from BETYP and historical tagging operations in the Atlantic Ocean
Tagging operations were conducted in the northern part of the Dakar baitboat fishing area
(13°N-21°N/15°W-25°W) from 1994 to 2000 (MAC program) and in the eastern Atlantic Ocean
by the BETYP program from 1999 to 2003. BETYP tagging took place in the Gulf of Guinea, in
Mauritania-Senegal (in collaboration with MAC), in the Canary, Madeira and Azores islands.
Movements of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye from Dakar baitboats are presented together with
tuna movements obtained from BETYP recoveries. These data are compared with movements
from historical tagging operations conducted from 1955 to 1998 in the entire Atlantic Ocean.
More emphasis is put on bigeye, as the main objective of BETYP is to obtain a better
understanding of bigeye stock structure and other parameters relevant to stock assessment.

3/1192: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/workshoponmappingandgeostatisticalmethodsforfisheriesstockassessment> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Workshop on Mapping and Geostatistical Methods for Fisheries Stock Assessment
The NAFO Scientific Council Special Session of September 2003 was the Workshop on Mapping and Geostatistical Methods for Fisheries Stock Assessment. The objective of the workshop was to provide participants with the basic understanding of geostatistical conceptes and methods, and provide tools to apply this knowledge to fisheries stock assessments. The instructors introduced freeware mapping and geostatistical software. Two sets of data were used for the lessons and demonstrations: the Canadian spring bottom trawl survey data from 1996 to 2002, and information from the yellowtail flounder commercial fishery on the Grand Bank from 1996 to 2002. The visualization, analysis and modeling of spatial data using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) were presented (e.g. Ocean Data View (ODV freeware), SPAN (Spatial Analysis System) and ACON (A CONtouring package). Surface (map) generating techniques were demonstrated using the various software packges. Geostatistical concepts and methods related to kriging, and methods for analyses using basics of the "R" software package were described.

4/1193: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usinglocalecologicalknowledgelektoprovideinsightonthetunapurseseinefleetsoftheindianoceanusefulformanagement> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Using local ecological knowledge (LEK) to provide insight on the tuna purse seine fleets of the Indian Ocean useful for management
The purse seine fishery in the Western Indian Ocean is dominated by Spanish and French vessels that rely heavily on the use of drifting fish aggregation devices (DFADs) to capture tropical tuna species (skipjack, yellowfin and bigeye tuna). This study uses local ecological knowledge (LEK) obtained through standardized interviews of fishing masters to compare and characterize the body of local ecological knowledge, fishing technology and fishing strategies of both fleets, with the goal of obtaining useful information for the management of the fishery. A notable difference between fleets was the number of DFADs actively monitored per vessel at any given time, which was much higher for Spanish vessels (ca. 60 versus 20 DFADs). Spanish vessels also achieved higher vessel CPUE (catch per DFAD set) than their French counterparts. The use of supply vessels to manage, monitor and protect productive DFADs, and the latest satellite-based technology to track and remotely monitor DFAD aggregations is restricted to the Spanish fleet. The French do not use supply vessels and deploy less sophisticated tracking buoys. These technological disparities resulted in some fishing strategy differences between both fleets, but few differences were found in the knowledge of tuna behavior accumulated by the fishers.

5/1194: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatializedecosystemindicatorsinthesouthernbenguela> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Spatialized ecosystem indicators in the southern Benguela
Based on published distribution maps of 15 key fish species, foraging areas of three top predators during their breeding season, and fishing grounds of the main commercial fleets in the southern Benguela ecosystem, seven spatialized ecosystem indicators are derived: biodiversity, connectivity, mean ratio of fished area and area of distribution by species, exploited fraction of the ecosystem surface area, total catch per fished area by fishery, mean bottom depth of catches, and mean distance of catches from the coast. These indicators are compared and their suitability for an ecosystem approach to fisheries is discussed. The first two indicators characterize the ecosystem; the others are pressure indicators that are also compared with conventional (catch rate) indices of abundance.

6/1195: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bioeconomicmodellingofthemauritanianoctopusfishery> : SCORE = 1.0637529
Doc : Bio-economic modelling of the Mauritanian octopus fishery
A bio-economic model of the Mauritanian octopus fishery has been developed. The biological basis of
the model is an adaptation of an existing analytical model, i.e. a production model designed explicitly for
octopus biology and the observed exploitation pattern (age-based model, computed on one monthly step,
etc). In the current version of the model, both the biological and economic components of the model have
been designed to reflect the fleet structure, with one small-scale and three industrial fleet segments. The
economic component of the model is based on the prices received by, and the operating (opportunity) costs
of, each segment. When coupled with the biological component, this allows an estimation of resource rents
per segment associated with different exploitation levels and fleet structures. Within the context of a new
management plan for the Mauritanian octopus fishery, the model enables an overall assessment of the
management system to be made, and can simulate the likely impact of a range of management measures.

7/1196: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multispeciesassessmentoftunascaughtinthetropicalatlanticpurseseinefisherysensitivityofproductionmodelstobiasesinreportedcatches> : SCORE = 1.0637529
Doc : Multi-species assessment of tunas caught in the Tropical Atlantic purse Seine fishery: sensitivity of production models to biases in reported catches
In this document, different scenarios of uncertainties in a multispecies fishery are presented. Uncertainties have been considered in the estimation of the species composition of the tropical tuna catch as well as in the total catch. Although three species (yellofin, skipjack and bigeye) are involved in the tropical tuna fishery, only uncertainties in the bigeye vs skipjack have been taken into account, in order to simplify the analysis. Regarding the total catch, bigeye has been considered as the species with higher uncertainty due to the IUU catch component. Analyses have been focused in evaluating the sensitivity of the current assessment methods to these uncertainties. Taking into account that the two sources of uncertainty affect the age structure of the catch as well as the total catch, surplus production methods have been applied in the assessment.

8/1197: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingperformanceandinformationexchangebetweenfishingvesselswithartificialneuralnetworks> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Modeling performance and information exchange between fishing vessels with artificial neural networks
A fishery is simulated in which 20 artificial vessels learn to make decisions through an artificial neural network in order to search for schools of fish among the available fishing grounds. Three scenarios with different degrees of variability, including uncertainty in the searching process, are considered. The simulation model accounts for the main features commonly observed in a purse seine tuna fishery in a time and a space scale. Vessel strategies are chosen by the artificial neural network, on the basis of the following decision criteria: information concerning time searching in a specific area, previous performance in this area, knowledge of the quality of surrounding fishing grounds, presence of other vessels fishing actively and trip length. An analysis of the effects of sharing information between vessels is done and this was compared to individual artificial fishing vessels. In general, a group of fishing vessels show higher performance than individual vessels. A convex performance comparison curve for several group sizes is found in all scenarios considered. The optimum group size differs according to the variability of the artificial world. At bigger group sizes performance decreases, probably due to competition and depletion effects of some fishing grounds.

9/1198: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewoffisherydatainrelationwiththeimplementationoftheseasonalmoratoriumonfadfisheriesintheatlantic> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : An overview of fishery data in relation with the implementation of the seasonal moratorium on FAD fisheries in the Atlantic
This paper presents a set of figures related to the tuna catches by species and by area taken by purse seiners in the Atlantic during recent
years. Most of these figures are based on the EU purse seiners as this
fleet has been the most important in the area and always providing good TASK 2 data to the ICCAT. Its main goal is to show the major changes in the purse seine fisheries during recent years, and especially in relation with the moratorium on FAD fishing, partial EU or total ICCAT, that has been + or – well implemented during the period novembre 1997-January 2005. These figures and maps are based on the basic ICCAT TASK2 data base, and they could easily be rehandled following potential new needs expressed by the ICCAT WGs

10/1199: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/onthenorthatlanticalbacorestockandonitspotentialsubpopulations> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : On the North Atlantic albacore stock and on its potential sub populations
This paper discusses the potential biological heterogeneity of the North Atlantic albacore stock. Based on the historical work by Aloncle and Delaporte in 1974, the paper keeps the hypothesis that at least 3 sub populations, well stratified & following an east west gradient of longitude, could have been exploited by the albacore surface fisheries. This heterogeneity of the stock has not been taken into account in the present stock assessment by SCRS, but it could play a major role in the fishery trend, as the present shrinking of the historical fishing zones could have produced a decline of the present stock MSY. Scientific investigations are actively recommended to solve this major uncertainty in the stock structure of the Northern Atlantic albacore stock and to better evaluate its potential impact on the stock assessment results.

11/1200: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelbasedassessmentofpersistenceinproposedmarineprotectedareadesigns> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Model-based assessment of persistence  in proposed marine protected area designs
Assessment of marine protected areas (MPAs) requires the ability to quantify
the effects of proposed MPA size and placement, habitat distribution, larval dispersal, and
fishing on the persistence of protected populations. Here we describe a model-based approach
to assessment of the contribution of a network of marine protected areas to the persistence of
populations with a sedentary adult phase and a dispersing larval phase. The model integrates
the effects of a patchy spatial distribution of habitat, the spatial scale of larval dispersal, and
the level of fishing outside of reserves into a calculation of the spatial distribution of
equilibrium settlement. We use the amount of coastline predicted to have equilibrium
settlement rates that saturate post-settlement habitat as a response variable for the assessment
and comparison of MPA network designs. We apply this model to a set of recently proposed
MPA networks for the central coast of California, USA. Results show that the area of habitat
set aside is a good predictor of the area over which population levels will be high for shortdistance
dispersers. However, persistence of longer distance dispersers depends critically on
the spatial distribution of habitat and reserves, ranging from not persistent anywhere to
persistent over a greater area than that set aside in reserves. These results depend on the
mechanisms of persistence, with self-replacement supporting short-distance dispersers and
network effects supporting long-distance dispersers. Persistence also depends critically on
fishery status outside the MPAs, as well as how fishing effort is redistributed after MPA
implementation. This assessment method provides important benchmarks, as well as a
transparent modeling approach, for improving initial MPA configurations that may result
from less-comprehensive rule- or habitat-based methods of designing MPAs.

12/1201: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialdistributionofcubicepspauciradiatusperciformesnomeidaeinthetropicalindianoceananditsimportanceinthedietoflargepelagicfishes> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Spatial distribution of Cubiceps pauciradiatus (Perciformes:Nomeidae) in the tropical Indian Ocean and its importance in the diet of large pelagic fishes
The bigeye cigarfish (Cubiceps pauciradiatus) is a small pelagic nomeid of the tropical world ocean, often recovered in the stomach contents of top predators such as tunas, billfishes and marine mammals. In the Indian Ocean, a few studies have investigated the biology and the ecology of this species that is one of the most abundant fish of the intermediate trophic levels. In this paper, we investigated the spatial distribution of C. pauciradiatus in the Indian Ocean using pelagic trawl catches carried out between 20°N and 45°S, and the importance of bigeye cigarfish in the diet of 9 piscivorous fishes sampled by different fishing gears in the western part of the Indian Ocean. The highest densities were observed along the eastern coast of Africa and in the Arabian Sea (87 000 individuals per square nautical mile) during the South-West Monsoon and in the eastern part of the Seychelles archipelago (62 200 ind. square nmi) during the North-East Monsoon. Small sized bigeye cigarfish (20–80 mm SL) was a regular and abundant prey (20 to 200 ind. per stomach) for schooling predators exploited by purse seine fishery such as large yellowfin and bigeye tunas chasing prey near the sea surface. Large sized bigeye cigarfish (61–150 mm SL) occurred in small numbers (3 to 20 ind. per stomach) in the stomach contents of swordfish and of large yellowfin and bigeye tunas caught by longline sets at great depths. Large concentrations of bigeye cigarfish occurred in zones of high productivity, and that species constituted seasonally a strong link in the transfer of energy from low to high trophic levels in this part of the Indian Ocean.

13/1202: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/krigingofthelatentprobabilityofabinomialvariableapplicationtofishstatistics> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Kriging of the latent probability of a binomial variable: application to fish statistics
The tropical tuna purse seine fishery is characterised by two fishing modes: one on free swimming tuna schools and one on schools associated with Fish Aggregating Devices (FAD). Our purpose is thus to understand how the two fishing modes are spatially distributed in the Indian Ocean and how this distribution has changed over the seasons and the years. Conditional on the latent probability that a set could be realized on a FAD, the number of sets on FAD was considered as independent Binomial random variables. Such a hierarchical model allows reducing the instabilities encountered when working on empirical ratios based on few observations. We discussed the connections with “kriging with measurement errors” and, the determination of the mean and the variance of the latent variable. The use of 22 years of fishing statistics (1985 – 2006) indicated a small year to year variability between variograms of the latent variable. A single model was thus used to krige the probability for fishing sets to be on log school. The time series of the kriging maps highlighted areas of systematic large probability of the second fishing mode which was consistent with expert knowledge but question the stationarity assumption made on the latent variable.

14/1203: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/whythenumberofhooksperbaskethpbisnotagoodproxyindicatorofthemaximumfishingdepthindriftinglonglinefisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Why the number of hooks per basket (HPB) is not a good proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth in drifting longline fisheries?
The effects of targeting in longline fisheries have major impacts on CPUE (catch per unit effort). To target large pelagic fishes in longline fisheries, fishermen deployed several tactics according to the target species. For a given species, the tactic depends on both the season and the fishing ground. One of major aims of the fishing tactic is to set the longline for optimizing the overlap between the distribution of hook depths and the supposed preferential vertical habitat of the target species. Thus, the maximum fishing depth (MFD) of the longline is recognized as a key parameter for estimating the distribution of hook depths and then to standardize fishing effort. In this context, the number of hooks per basket (HPB) is commonly used as a proxy indicator of MFD (this information has been collected for the Japanese longline fishery since 1975). Unfortunately HPB is not a good proxy indicator of MFD. In the first part of this work we illustrate why our previous affirmation is consistent from a theoretical point of view. Second, we analyse depth series recorded with time depth recorders (TRDs) at the deepest point of the mainline (data collected during instrumented longline experiments carried out in the French Polynesia EEZ, central South Pacific). We observe variations of depths recorded during the soak time and we compare the calculated mean depth of depth series with the theoretical MFD (catenary formula). The mean depth appears as the better proxy indicator of the MFD which can be used to estimate the distribution of hook depths. Finally, we discuss relevant data which must be collected by both observers and fishermen in order to improve analysis of the fishing effort in longline fisheries. These data are crucial to standardize appropriately longline CPUE and to correct for potential bias. Statistical models (even the most sophisticated, such as habitat based model, GLM, GAM, GLMM or neural networks) could not supplant for the lack of such input information.

15/1204: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteonthestockstructureofpacificbigeyetunatobeusedinstockassessments> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Note on the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna to be used in stock assessments
This paper reviews and discusses the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna in relation with the prospects of stock assessment analysis of this population. The analysis of fishery data, mainly the spatio temporal bigeye catches by gear and by sizes, indicates that the present 150°W frontier based on historical and administrative results does not appear to be a convenient biological frontier. Our conclusion is that the present lack of significant tag recoveries across the 150°W frontier should not be considered as being significant, due to the limited numbers of bigeye presently tagged and to the great distances between present tagging locations. North South movements of adult bigeye are also a potential source of mixing between eastern and western bigeye populations. It is hypothetized that there could be an increased net flow of juvenile bigeye towards the WCPO due to the increased number of FADs in the western EPO. Our conclusion is that all the bigeye stock assessments by WCPFC and the IATTC should preferably be conducted in a unified best model and at a Pacific wide scale. A large scale tagging programme covering the distribution area of the entire bigeye population and fully coordinated between WCPFC and IATTC would be necessary to obtain realistic and age specific movement patterns at a Pacific wide level. Management actions of the bigeye stocks should also be fully coordinated between the Western and Eastern stocks, because of the probably weak biological frontier and also because of the bigeye long life span. The long term management benefits or failures will probably be shared by WCPFC and IATTC.

16/1205: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimatesofhistoricchangesintotalmortalityandselectivityforeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamisfromlengthcompositiondata> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Estimates of historic changes in total mortality and selectivity for  Eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) from length composition data
Catch-at-size data of the eastern Atlantic skipjack were used to estimate changes in total mortality from 1969 to 2007. We used a transitional model of mean length that generalized the Beverton-Holt mortality estimator to allow change in mortality rate under nonequilibrium conditions. Then, from homogeneous periods of time, length-converted catch curves were used to access qualitative changes in selectivity patterns for two surface fisheries (the baitboat fishery operating from Dakar, Senegal, and the European and associated purse seine fisheries). To explore the impact of catch on the mortality rate, a Bayesian change-point analysis was conducted on the catch time series to detect concomitant variation between mortality rates and catch. Finally, potential causes of these changes are discussed in relation to the implementation of new fishing technology, such fish aggregating devices (FAD). The general pattern depicted by total mortality is in agreement with previous knowledge on this fishery: a state of complete or practically complete exploitation during the nineties followed by the decrease in nominal purse seine fishing effort in the last decade, combined with the effect of a seasonal moratorium on FAD fishing operations. There was no evidence of a change in selectivity between the two contrasted periods of time considered: 1969-1979 and 1986-1999; the second period being characterized by the introduction of new technology onboard vessels. In contrast, the covariation over time between total catch and mortality rate three years later highlights the effect of the fishing pressure on the stock of eastern Atlantic skipjack.

17/1206: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/onthemajorinteresttodoallyellowfinstockassessmentanalysisintheeasternpacificsinceorbefore> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : On the major interest to do all yellowfin stock assessment analysis in the Eastern Pacific since 1950, or before
This paper examine the shifting base line syndrome faced by the yellowfin stock assessment done by the IATTC staff, as when its historical stock assessment were starting in 1934, all the present stock assessment start only in 1975. The paper concludes that future yellowfin stock assessment should be conducted starting since the beginning of the yellowfin fisheries, for instance in 1920. Such extended analysis should be based on an the results of ad hoc data mining program allowing to recover and to incorporate in the IATTC data base all these historical data. The assessment model should also be modified in order to fully use all these new data and the major changes in stock and fisheries (for instance in catchabilities, size selectivities and fishing zones). It is concluded that such extended analysis covering the early fishery should widely improve the modelling of present stock status and the validity of the estimated MSY.

18/1207: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/synchronouspatternoffluctuationinthreeanchovyfisheriesinthehumboldtcurrentsystem> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Synchronous pattern of fluctuation in three anchovy fisheries in the Humboldt Current System
Interdecadal versus interannual time-scale variations of catch data of three anchovy fisheries distributed in the Humboldt Current System (HCS) were analyzed during the period 1960-2002, by using first a loess smoother. The loess residual data were considered as the interannual variation. Interdecadal changes were highly coherent for the three fisheries of anchovy distributed in the HCS, while there were differences in terms of interannual variations. The north-central Peru fishery was similar to the south Peru-northern Chile fishery in terms of the interannual component of fluctuation of these fisheries which was significantly and negatively related with El Niño-Southern Oscillations events occurring during the spring of the previous year. Interdecadal synchronous variations in the three anchovy fisheries suggest a common forcing by long-term environmental factors in the HCS, although other causes cannot be excluded. During the last 40 years, coherent changes in anchovy fisheries were observed, and this synchronous pattern is out of phase with large-amplitude sardine regimes. Long-term climate variability seems to be the main cause for interdecadal fluctuations in anchovy fisheries in the HCS, although available time series are too short to prove this link and exclude the hypothesis of nonenvironmental forcing. Large-amplitude regime shifts may be more important to consider than interannual changes since they can affect simultaneously and more dramatically the three anchovy fisheries distributed in the Humboldt Current System.

19/1208: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/repetitivefishinglocaldepletionandfishingefficiencies> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Repetitive fishing, local depletion and fishing efficiencies
Commercial catch per unit effort (cpue) recorded by observers on board trawlers operating
in the French EEZ around the Kerguelen Islands (south Indian Ocean) are used to analyse
the impact of repetitive fishing on cpues and to estimate local fishing efficiencies. Series of
cpues from the same fishing locations and no more than two days apart are first built, and
then the mean depletion effect of repetitive fishing (between 4% and 10% for Patagonian
toothfish and around 20% for icefish and marbled notothen) is quantified. Random fluctuations
of cpues around an exponential decrease (i.e. the reference model when fishing efficiencies
are constant) lead to modelling fishing efficiency as a random variable. Based
on the observations of the ratio between two consecutive catches, a method is developed
to estimate the probability density function of fishing efficiencies. The significant decrease
of average fishing efficiency between the start of the fishery and its full exploitation phase is
explained by a change in regulations (from global to individual quotas).

20/1209: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicstructureoftheperuvianmarineecosystemininsightsontheeffectsofmanagementscenariosforthehakefisheryusingtheibmtrophicmodelosmose> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Trophic structure of the Peruvian marine ecosystem in 2000-2006 : insights on the effects of management scenarios for the hake fishery using the IBM trophic model Osmose
The individual-based trophic model Osmose is applied to the upwelling marine ecosystem off
the coast of Peru. The dynamics and life cycle of eight major species of the Peruvian marine
ecosystem are explicitly considered in the model. Reference simulations provide an overview of
the trophic structure of the Peruvian ecosystem during the period 2000–2006. Results of model
calibration and simulations are discussed in the light of current empirical knowledge on the
trophic functioning of the Peruvian ecosystem and are compared to outputs obtained recently
using the trophic model Ecopath.
The impacts on the ecosystem of restoration plans for the depleted hake (Merluccius gayi
peruanus) population are explored through two management scenarios: a) a long term
reduction of fishing effort targeting hake and b) a moratorium on the hake fishery. The
simulations help better understand the recent failure of a 20 month hake moratorium and
provide long-term strategic support to ecosystem-based management. Limits of our approach
are discussed and recommendations are detailed for future developments of the Osmose model
and ecosystem approach to fishery management in the Peruvian context.

21/1210: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bioeconomicmodellingasanintegrativetooltoassessthedynamicsoffisheriesfacingglolbaleconomicandenvironementchangetheexampleofthefrenchguyanashrimpfisherymodel> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Bioeconomic modelling as an integrative tool to assess the dynamics of fisheries facing glolbal economic and environement change : the example of the French Guyana shrimp fishery model


22/1211: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactsofkelvinwaveforcingintheperuhumboldtcurrentsystemscenariosofspatialreorganizationsfromphysicstofishers> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Impacts of Kelvin wave forcing in the Peru Humboldt Current system: Scenarios of spatial reorganizations from physics to fishers
Because climate change challenges the sustainability of important fish populations and the fisheries they support, we need to understand how large scale climatic forcing affects the functioning of marine ecosystems. In the Humboldt Current system (HCS), a main driver of climatic variability is coastally-trapped Kelvin waves (KWs), themselves originating as oceanic equatorial KWs. Here we (i) describe the spatial reorganizations of living organisms in the Humboldt coastal system as affected by oceanic KWs forcing, (ii) quantify the strength of the interactions between the physical and biological component dynamics of the system, (iii) formulate hypotheses on the processes which drive the redistributions of the organisms, and (iv) build scenarios of space occupation in the HCS under varying KW forcing. To address these questions we explore, through bivariate lagged correlations and multivariate statistics, the relationships between time series of oceanic KW amplitude (TAO mooring data and model-resolved baroclinic modes) and coastal Peruvian oceanographic data (SST, coastal upwelled waters extent), anchoveta spatial distribution (mean distance to the coast, spatial concentration of the biomass, mean depth of the schools), and fishing fleet statistics (trip duration, searching duration, number of fishing sets and catch per trip, features of the foraging trajectory as observed by satellite vessel monitoring system). Data sets span all or part of January 1983 to September 2006. The results show that the effects of oceanic KW forcing are significant in all the components of the coastal ecosystem, from oceanography to the behaviour of the top predators – fishers. This result provides evidence for a bottom-up transfer of the behaviours and spatial stucturing through the ecosystem. We propose that contrasting scenarios develop during the passage of upwelling versus downwelling KWs. From a predictive point of view, we show that KW amplitudes observed in the mid-Pacific can be used to forecast which system state will dominate the HCS over the next 2–6 months. Such predictions should be integrated in the Peruvian adaptive fishery management.

23/1212: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/therelevanceofsizeparametersasindicatorsoffisheryexploitationintwowestafricanreservoirs> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : The relevance of size parameters as indicators of fishery exploitation in two West African reservoirs
Abstract  Fish communities living within the artificial reservoirs of Manantali and Selingue in Mali are compared after the monitoring
of small-scale fishery landings over 13 months (May 2002–June 2003). The fishing pressure constitutes the main difference
of these two similar reservoirs. The effects of fishing on the structure of the fish communities are analyzed by using fish
size spectra and derived indicators. In Selingue Reservoir, the fishing gears mostly target smaller species (mean length of
165 mm) than in Manantali Reservoir (mean length of 210 mm). Unlike in Selingue, the size structure does not change between
seasons in Manantali. In Selingue, fishing practices that target the fish recruitment of the year constitute a structuring
factor of the fish sizes observed in the catches. In spite of similar values of the slopes of the global fish communities'
size spectra between the two reservoirs, they clearly display an intense exploitation at Selingue. Then, size-based spectra
indicators represent a potential tool for assessing the impact of fishing on fish communities in small-scale fisheries.

24/1213: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/theimpactofoverfishingandelninoontheconditionfactorandreproductivesuccessofperuvianhakemerlucciusgayiperuanus> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : The impact of overfishing and El Niño on the condition factor and reproductive success of Peruvian hake, Merluccius gayi peruanus
In this study we examine physiological responses of Peruvian hake (Merluccius gayi peruanus) to changes in their population structure and physical environment during the period 1971–2004. In particular, we assess the relative investment of energy in growth and/or reproduction of small (20–35 cm) and large (35–50 cm) hake. We calculated the (i) condition (Fulton's K), (ii) gonad and (iii) gut fullness indices for 42,761 female hakes sampled from commercial landings; these indices indicate fish somatic, reproductive and feeding condition, respectively. Using Generalized Additive Models we then examined potential relationships between these indices and sea surface temperature anomalies and date. Drastic energy exhaustion and a decrease in female hake fecundity were observed during El Niño events. The long-term trend showed a general increase in condition factor and a decrease in gonad index for large hake between 1971 and 2004. Small hake exhibited a different trend with an increase in reproductive activity, which was accompanied by an earlier maturation. We hypothesise that the observed low investment of energy in reproduction by large female hake might be related to the lack of large males, due to a sex-selective fishery and the impact of El Niño. We suggest that fishing diminished hake reproductive capacity, modified the sex ratio in favour of females and increased population vulnerability to environmental stress, in particular to the El Niño. The impact of multidecadal variability and predators like the squid, Dosidicus gigas, remain unresolved until longer time series become available.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

25/1214: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ayearclasscurveanalysistoestimatemortalityofatlanticbluefintunacaughtbythenorwegianfisheryfromto> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : A year-class curve analysis to estimate mortality of Atlantic bluefin tuna caught by the Norwegian fishery from 1956 to 1979
At the ICCAT symposium on bluefin tuna that held in Santander in April 2008, Tangen et al.(2009) presented a first quantification of the fishing effort deployed by the Norwegian fishery targeting bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea. Using a year-class curve analysis on the Norwegian CPUE, this document presents the first estimates of mortality rates of Atlantic bluefin tuna that migrated north from the mid-1950s to the late 1970s. The results indicate that bluefin tuna would have experienced a total mortality rate (Z) of 0.2 to 0.4 yr-1 (i.e. F at around 0.3 yr-1) during the late 1950s, 0.2 yr-1 during the 1960s and 0.1 yr-1 afterwards (assuming M=0.1 yr-1). These results appear to be rather robust and consistent with the VPA estimates from the 1970s and early 1980s, albeit slightly higher. The fishing mortality rates experienced by bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea during the period 1956-1979 were thus significant (so that local overfishing may have occurred, especially during the 1950s), but lower than F estimated by year-class curve analysis in recent years (i.e. 1992-2004). This comparison between two distant periods of time during which BFT was significantly (highly) exploited tend to confirm, with new pieces of information, the pessimistic conclusions of the 2006 stock assessment.

26/1215: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/dispersalperrecruitanefficientmethodforassessingsustainabilityinmarinereservenetworks> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Dispersal per recruit: An efficient method for assessing sustainability in marine reserve networks
Marine reserves are an increasingly important tool for the management of marine ecosystems around the world. However, the effects of proposed marine reserve configurations on sustainability and yield of populations are typically not estimated because of the computational intensity of direct simulation and uncertainty in larval dispersal and density-dependent recruitment. Here we develop a method for efficiently assessing a marine reserve configuration for persistence and yield of a population with sedentary adults and dispersing larvae. The method extends the familiar sustainability criteria of individual replacement for single populations based on eggs-per-recruit (EPR) to spatially distributed populations with sedentary adults, a dispersing larval phase, and limited carrying capacity in the settlement-recruit relationship. We refer to this approach as dispersal-per-recruit (DPR). In some cases, a single DPR calculation, based on the assumption that post-settlement habitat is saturated (i.e., at maximum recruitment), is sufficient to determine population persistence, while in other cases further iterative calculations are required. These additional calculations reach an equilibrium more rapidly than a full simulation of age- or size-structured populations. From the DPR result, fishery yield can be computed from yield-per-recruit (YPR) at each point. We assess the utility of DPR calculations by applying them to single reserves, uniformly distributed systems of reserves, and randomly sized and spaced systems of reserves on a linear coast line. We find that for low levels of EPR in fished areas (e.g., 10% or less of the natural, unfished EPR when post-settlement habitats are saturated by 35% of natural settlement), a single DPR calculation is sufficient to determine persistence of the population. We also show that, in uniform systems of reserves with finite reserve size, maximal fisheries yield occurs when the density of reserves is such that all post-settlement habitat is nearly saturated with settlers. Finally, we demonstrate the application of this approach to a realistic proposed marine reserve configuration.

27/1216: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howcansciencecontributetoanecosystemapproachtopelagicdemersalandrocklobsterfisheriesinsouthafrica> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : How can science contribute to an ecosystem approach to pelagic, demersal and rock lobster fisheries in South Africa?
South Africa is committed to moving towards an Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries (EAF) and has laid the foundations for this using a three-pronged approach: through a project (EAF Feasibility Study) under the Benguela Current Large Marine Ecosystem Programme; through a dedicated scientific working group established by the Marine and Coastal Management branch of South Africa's Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism; and through collaborative scientific and modelling studies within the joint French-South African ‘Upwelling Ecosystems' Programme. This contribution provides an overview of the progress made towards developing an EAF in South Africa, both on the scientific front in terms of improved understanding of the functioning of the Benguela ecosystem and the ways in which its ecosystem components interact, and regarding the practical ways being explored to enable scientific advice to feed in to South African fisheries management while taking into account broad stakeholder concerns. The paper focusses particularly on the role played by scientific contributions (research and monitoring) to address these ecosystem issues in three important South African fisheries — pelagic, demersal and rock lobster — so that the appropriate management measures can be put into place. Socio-economic concerns are included for the rock lobster fishery.

28/1217: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialconsiderationsforthedakhlastockofoctopusvulgarisindicatorspatternsandfisheriesinteractions> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Spatial considerations for the Dakhla stock of Octopus vulgaris: indicators, patterns and fisheries interactions
The common octopus (Octopus vulgaris) is the target species of the cephalopod fishery that exploits two stocks, Dakhla and Cap Blanc, off southern Morocco (26 degrees N 21 degrees N), an area commonly referred to as the Saharan Bank. Octopus vulgaris is also one of the most abundant demersal species in this highly productive area, and plays a key role in the upwelling ecosystem. Spatial patterns of the main phases of the octopus vulgaris life cycle of the Dakhla stock are described, using trawl surveys carried out twice a year from 1998 to 2003. Using geostatistics and spatial indicators, mature females and juveniles are analysed and mapped to characterize the main features of the spawning and recruitment phases. There are clear distinctions between the spatial patterns of the spawning and recruitment phases: juveniles are more coastal, less spatially dispersed, more anisotropically distributed, and more patchy. Our results suggest that the spatial pattern of the Octopus vulgaris Dakhla stock is different from that of the same species in other ecosystems such as the Mediterranean. GIS reveals that the spawning-stock biomass is globally more accessible to the industrial fleet than to the artisanal one, a finding contrary to contemporary thinking and with important resource management implications.

29/1218: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/wherehavethetagsgonesimulationoftagssintagasimplemodeltoestimatethenumberandsizeoftunastaggedbytherttpiothatarecurrentlystillalive> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Where have the tags gone? SImulatioN of TAGs (SINTAG): A simple model to estimate the number and size of tunas tagged by the RTTP-IO that are currently still alive.
The large scale Regional Tuna Tagging Programme in the Indian Ocean (RTTP-IO) has reported a 14% return rate of the 168.000 tuna tagged between 2005 and 2007. Approximately 96% of these returns have been reported from the purse seine fishery. This has lead to speculation that the tagged tuna have not yet reached sizes at which they could be caught by longliners (bigeye and yellowfin) or by the baitboat fishery (skipjack) A simple exponential decay and growth model has, however, indicated that this may not be the case, and tagged individuals should be available to these fisheries. It would thus appear that tagged tuna are not being reported by the longline and baitboat fisheries and an effort should be made to increase the level of tag reporting in those fleets in order to maximise the usefulness of the data obtained from the RTTP-IO.

30/1219: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/tunamovementpatternspresentlyshownintheindianoceanbytagrecoveriesfromtheiottptaggingprogram> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Tuna movement patterns presently shown in the Indian Ocean by tag recoveries from the IOTTP tagging program
This paper examines the movement patterns shown by the recoveries of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tagged by dart tags during the IOTTP large scale tagging. This analysis is based on a large number of 6236 recoveries belonging to the 3 species. These 3 species show similar movement patterns, and these recovered tunas, tagged in a limited number of peculiar areas, are showing very wide and very fast movement patterns, skipjack being the more mobile species. As a result, the recoveries of the 3 species have been widely scattered in the entire fishing zone of purse seiners, a fishery with large catches and with very good reporting of tags recoveries. This rather extreme mobility of the tagged tunas is quite unique world wide and it remains widely  unexplained. This study also shows and discusses the strange lack of significant recoveries by the Maldivian skipjack fisheries. It also confirms the insufficient rate of tag reporting by longliners and by various coastal fisheries, that are still presently limiting the knowledge of the real movement patterns at a larger scale of yellowfin and bigeye in their global Indian Ocean habitat.

31/1220: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/levytrajectoriesofperuvianpurseseinersasanindicatorofthespatialdistributionofanchovyengraulisringens> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Levy trajectories of Peruvian purse-seiners as an indicator of the spatial distribution of anchovy (Engraulis ringens)
Analogous to other top predators foraging on patchy resources, the spatial behaviour of fishers provides information on the spatial organization of fish. Focusing on the Peruvian anchovy purse-seine fishery, vessel monitoring system data are used to describe fishing vessels' trajectories, and acoustic survey data to characterize anchovy spatial distribution. Vessel trajectories were analysed in terms of move-length distribution, whereas fish distribution was characterized by spatial extent, concentration, and fractal dimension. Fishers perform Levy flights that can be characterized by a single statistic (mu); mu is significantly correlated with the fractal dimension of fish distribution. It is argued that the Levy statistic is a good candidate for an ecosystem indicator that might contribute to realtime monitoring of ecosystems.

32/1221: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fasstafullyagesizeandspacetimestructuredstatisticalmodelfortheassessmentoftunapopulations> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : FASST: a fully age-size and space-time structured statistical model for the assessment of tuna populations
This paper describes the model FASST. FASST is a fully structured age, size, space and time
stock assessment model. It is expressed as a deterministic system of partial differential
equations continuous in age, size and time. Space is represented using large discrete zones
interconnected by exchange rates. All the parameterizations used to represent recruitment,
growth, mortality and movements are chosen to be size-dependent and age independent.
Consequently, for simplicity purposes, the age dimension can be simplified. The model is
integrated numerically to simulate the stock dynamics. A complex process -and observationerror
framework is used to estimate the model parameters, and hence the past stock status, in
a Bayesian context. The model uses simultaneously most fishery data currently available for
tuna stock assessment such as catch by fleet in number and weight, length-frequency samples,
otolith analysis, tag-recapture data. It provides a new way to integrate that information into a
consistent stock assessment framework.

33/1222: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/emergenceofaselforganizeddynamicfisherysectorapplicationtosimulationofthesmallscalefreshfishsupplychaininsenegal> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Emergence of a Self-Organized Dynamic Fishery Sector: Application to Simulation of the Small-Scale Fresh Fish Supply Chain in Senegal


34/1223: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.62052256
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

35/1224: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleexploitationofamajortunaconcentrationintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Mesoscale exploitation of a major tuna concentration in the Indian Ocean
The paper analyzes the daily catch, fishing effort and fish size data of the purse seine fleet fishing in the
western Indian Ocean in February 2005, when a major concentration of tuna occurred and was heavily exploited by
this surface fishery. This tuna concentration event occurred over a period of just 12 days, in an area of about 3500
square nautical miles located to the west of the Seychelles. This small stratum produced a total catch of 22 000 t,
corresponding to 6.5% of the total fishing mortality of all adult yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) in the entire Indian
Ocean in 2005. Sets were made mainly on free schools and the catch mainly composed of large yellowfin tuna. The
average CPUE and the average catch per set were very large, 65 t and 85 t per fishing day, respectively. This “event” took
place in a precise area where a high concentration of chlorophyll had been localized 18 days before. The subsequent
concentration of tuna schools probably arose due to the high densities of their prey feeding on this large phytoplankton
biomass. This phytoplankton bloom was observed at the edge of an anticyclonic eddy, but its origin and its high density
cannot be fully explained by available environmental data. The adult yellowfin were probably at a reproductive stage
and actively feeding on the local food chain generated by the phytoplankton bloom. Such an event is extreme, but
typical of tuna purse seine fisheries where fleets often search for such tuna patches. These events play an important role
in tuna fisheries due to the increase in fishing effort and fishing efficiency of purses seiners, both of which increase their
impact on the resource. The fine scale study of such events and their improved integration into tuna stock assessments
is recommended.

36/1225: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bioeconomicmodelofthedynamicsoffisheriesfacingglobaleconomicandenvironmentchangesthefrenchguyanashrimpfisherymodel> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Bioeconomic model of the dynamics of fisheries facing global economic and environment changes.The French Guyana shrimp fishery model


37/1226: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/phasetransitionsinmarinefishrecruitmentprocesses> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Phase transitions in marine fish recruitment processes
There has been a recent resurgence of interest in fisheries recruitment as a dynamic and complex process that is integrated over several life stages, with a variety of factors acting across scales to initiate, modulate, and constrain population abundance and variability. In this paper, we review the theory of recruitment phase transitions using a marine fisheries perspective. We propose that transitions in recruitment are dependent upon the balance of activating and constraining processes of recruitment control, and we highlight fundamental differences in recruitment transitions precipitated by climate events, those related to community alterations, and those manifested by fishery practices (though each is not necessarily mutually exclusive). We maintain that the emergent properties of fisheries populations post-phase transition are contingent upon their histories, their differing initial states, the degree of food web complexity, interaction strengths among interspecifics, and contrasting external forcing, any or all of which may be dissimilar between one regime and another.We suggest that it may be challenging to forecast recruitment phase transitions, though we encourage efforts to determine whether there are unifying relationships that govern recruitment dynamics.
© 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

38/1227: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howdoesfishingaltermarinepopulationsandecosystemssensitivitytoclimate> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : How does fishing alter marine populations and ecosystems sensitivity to climate?
Evidence has accumulated that climate variability influences the state and functioning of marine ecosystems. At the same time increasing pressure from exploitation and other human activities has been shown to impact exploited and non-exploited species and potentially modify ecosystem structure. There has been a tendency among marine scientists to pose the question as a dichotomy, i.e., whether (1) "natural" climate variability or (2) fishery exploitation bears the primary responsibility for population declines in fish populations and the associated ecosystem changes. However, effects of both climate and exploitation are probably substantially involved in most cases. More importantly, climate and exploitation interact in their effects, such that climate may cause failure in a fishery management scheme but that fishery exploitation may also disrupt the ability of a resource population to withstand, or adjust to, climate changes. Here, we review how exploitation, by altering the structure of populations and ecosystems, can modify their ability to respond to climate. The demographic effects of fishing (removal of large-old individuals) can have substantial consequences on the capacity of populations to buffer climate variability through various pathways (direct demographic effects, effects on migration, parental effects). In a similar way, selection of population sub-units within meta-populations may also lead to a reduction in the capacity of populations to withstand climate variability and change. At the ecosystem level, reduced complexity by elimination of species, such as might occur by fishing, may be destabilizing and could lead to reduced resilience to perturbations. Differential exploitation of marine resources could also promote increased turnover rates in marine ecosystems, which would exacerbate the effects of environmental changes. Overall (and despite the specificities of local situations) reduction in marine diversity at the individual, population and ecosystem levels will likely lead to a reduction in the resilience and an increase in the response of populations and ecosystems to future climate variability and change. Future management schemes will have to consider the structure and functioning of populations and ecosystems in a wider sense in order to maximise the ability of marine fauna to adapt to future climates.

39/1228: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bluefinfishingbysportfishermenoffthetrebeurdenbaynorthernbrittanyduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 1.3732991
Doc : Bluefin fishing by sport fishermen off the Trebeurden Bay, Northern Brittany, during the 1946 - 1953 period
This paper describes and analyses the short history of the giant bluefin seasonal sport fishery that took place in the Trebeurden Bay, Brittany, France, after World War 2. This fishery was clearly linked with a now vanished sardine local resource and artisanal fishery, and it was targeting giant bluefin that were probably migrating back from the North Sea and Norway. The history of these sardine and tuna fisheries is discussed in relation with the potential tuna migrations. The end of the bluefin fishery in 1953 was probably related to the local extinction of the sardine stock. This event confirms the great interest to analyse data from bluefin sport fisheries, and the paper recommends doing more data mining targeting the recovery of these historical sport fishery data.

40/1229: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwpeb> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : IOTC WPEB - 2008/016
Data collected through 20 observer fishing trips were used to quantify
the number of silky sharks taken as bycatch by the French tuna
purse seine fishery of the Western Indian Ocean. 1,385 immature
silky sharks of which 85% was discarded at sea and 15% retained
aboard, were observed as bycatch during 685 fishing sets observed
from October 2005 to April 2008. Zero-inflated regression models
fitted with Bayesian methods were used to explain silky shark
bycatch as a function of fishing mode (free vs. fishing aggregating
device-associated (FAD) schools), area, and season. Model results
showed that silky sharks occurred in 24% of the fishing sets with an
expected number of sharks per set estimated to be 2.02 ± 0.05. The
3 covariates were found to significantly explain both the presence
and number of silky sharks caught by the French purse seiners. FAD
was shown to have a strong positive effect on the number of silky
sharks caught, an expected value of 4.3 sharks being taken in FADassociated
schools versus 0.3 shark in free schools. There were
significant differences in silky shark bycatch between seasons and
areas with higher bycatch than average in July-September and in the
South-East Seychelles area while fewer sharks were expected to be
caught in the North Somali area. Results are discussed within the
context of the ecosystem approach to fisheries for the analysis of
ecosystem effects of fishing.

41/1230: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/scaleinvariantmovementsoffishermenthesameforagingstrategyasnaturalpredators> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Scale invariant movements of fishermen: the same foraging strategy as natural predators
We analyzed the movement of fishing vessels during fishing trips in order to understand how fishermen behave in space while searching for fish. For that purpose we used hourly geo-referenced positions of vessels, provided by a satellite vessel monitoring system, for the entire industrial fleet (809 vessels) of the world's largest single species fishery (Peruvian anchovy, Engraulis ringens) from December 1999 to March 2003. Observed trajectories of fishing vessels are well modeled by Lévy random walks, suggesting that fishermen use a stochastic search strategy which conforms to the same search statistics as non-human predators. We show that human skills (technology, communication, or others) do not result in the fishermen's spatial behavior being fundamentally different from that of animal predators. With respect to probability of prey encounter, our results suggest that fishermen, on average, evolved an optimal movement pattern (μ = 2.00) among the family of Lévy random walks. This Lagrangian approach opens several perspectives in terms of operational management of the pelagic fish stock.

42/1231: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/reproductivedynamicsofswordfishxiphiasgladiusinthesouthwesternindianoceanreunionislandpartfecundityandspawningpattern> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean (Reunion Island). Part 2: fecundity and spawning pattern
Batch fecundity and relative fecundity of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean were estimated from seven gravid swordfish females (size range 127-225 cm lower jaw-to-fork length, LJFL) with unovulated, hydrated oocytes collected onboard Reunion-based (France) longline swordfish fishing vessels between December 1999 to January 2001. To investigate the spawning pattern of swordfish, we used data collected through a combination of two at sea sampling regimes. A total of 17 007 geo-located size data of swordfish were recorded during 8 years (1993-2001) and a total of 1727 (size range 75-289 cm, LJFL) swordfish gonads (1107 females and 620 males) were sampled from May 1998 to January 2001. The estimated batch fecundity ranged from 995 000 hydrated oocytes for the smallest ripe female to 4.3 millions for the largest female sampled measuring respectively 127 to 225 cm in curved length (LJFL). The relative fecundity ranged from 25 to 72 hydrated oocytes per gram of body weight. We found that batch fecundity was positively correlated with fish length and that the older/larger females have earlier and longer spawning seasons than younger/smaller females. These findings suggested that older/larger females which are seasonally migrating in this spawning ground seem to play a major role in reproductive success of the species in producing significantly more offspring than younger females during an extended spawning season. Examination of the length-frequency date from the fishery indicated that the young fish are resident around Reunion and around the seamounts off Reunion Island. Our results highlight the important role of the older/larger females in the reproductive capacity of southwestern Indian Ocean stock. We discuss the potential implications of fishing the older/larger females for this stock in terms of reproduction and recruitment..

43/1232: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/communicatingscientificknowledgetoactorshowdoindicatorsrespondtostakesinrelationtothedevelopmentofthefisherysectorintheguinearepublicint> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Communicating scientific knowledge to actors: how do indicators respond to stakes in relation to the development of the fishery sector in the Guinea Republic? Int
This paper is concerned with the development of the fishery sector in Guinea. The well-targeted purpose was to provide stakeholders with adequate knowledge items favouring their self-determination of a sustainable sector structure. The approach was to identify and implement an appropriate organisation to transfer knowledge resulting from research, in order to contribute to the development of a common information platform used as an effective basis for a multiparty exchange. Reliable communication methods and components were determined and related to information content, nature, medium, channels and targets with a particular focus on the required diversification of information restoration media and channels. Generally, information appears most efficiently communicated by combining various types of information, set out in different manners according to the various target populations. This approach results in a global communication process where indicators, as quantified and synthetic information, are considered by users as one, among other types, of information release.

44/1233: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climatevariabilityfishandfisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Climate variability, fish and fisheries
Fish population variability and fisheries activities are closely linked to weather and climate dynamics. While weather at sea directly affects fishing, environmental variability determines the distribution, migration, and abundance of fish. Fishery science grew up during the last century by integrating knowledge from oceanography, fish biology, marine ecology and fish population dynamics, largely focused on the great northern hemisphere fisheries. During this period, understanding and explaining interannual fish recruitment variability became a major focus for fisheries oceanographers. Yet, the close link between climate and fisheries is best illustrated by the effect of 'unexpected' events – i.e. non-seasonal, and sometimes catastrophic – on fish exploitation, such as those associated with the El Niño/ Southern Oscillation (ENSO). The observation that fish populations fluctuate at decadal time scales and show patterns of synchrony while being geographically separated drew attention to oceanographic processes driven by low frequency signals, as reflected by indices tracking large scale climate patterns such as the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) and the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO). This low frequency variability was first observed in catch fluctuations of small pelagic fish (anchovies, sardines), but similar effects soon emerged for larger fish such as salmons, various groundfish species, and some tuna species. Today, the availability of long time series of observations combined with major scientific advances in sampling and modelling the oceans ecosystems allows fisheries science to investigate processes generating variability in abundance, distribution and dynamics of fish species at daily, decadal and even centennial scales. These studies are central to the research programme of GLOBEC (Global Ocean Ecosystems Dynamics). In this review, we present examples of relationships between climate variability and fisheries at these different time-scales for species covering various marine ecosystems ranging from equatorial to sub-arctic regions. We describe some of the known mechanisms linking climate variability and exploited fish populations, as well as some leading hypotheses, and their implications for their management and for the modelling of their dynamics. We conclude with recommendations for collaborative work between climatologists,
oceanographers and fisheries scientists to resolve some of the outstanding problems in the development of sustainable fisheries.

45/1234: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/applicationoftheproceanmodeltotheeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamistunafishery> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Application of the Procean Model to the eastern atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) tuna fishery
The PROCEAN (PRoduction Catch / Effort ANalysis) model is a multi-fleet biomass dynamic
model developed in a Bayesian framework to conduct stock assessments based on catch and
effort time series data. PROCEAN was applied to the eastern component of the Atlantic
skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) to assess the current status of the stock and provide reference
points to fishery managers. Data included 8 time series of catch and effort data spanning from
1969 to 2006 and mostly standardised based on generalized linear modelling techniques.
Informative priors and constraints for some parameters were used to allow the model to
converge. Model fits were generally good but indicated increasing trends in the residuals for
some fishing fleets. Results suggested that the eastern Atlantic skipjack stock would be
underexploited, with a biomass in 2006 equal to 1.8 times the biomass at the maximum
sustainable yield (MSY) and a fishing mortality in 2006 equal to 30% of the fishing mortality at
MSY (FMSY). A sensitivity analysis performed to account for uncertainty in some input
parameters showed that FMSY estimates were robust to parameter changes while MSY estimates
were sensitive to the prior distribution for MSY. Based on the different model runs, the MSY
was estimated to be comprised between 152,000 and 185,000 t. The use of random walks on
catchability was useful for tracking changes in catchability and associated increasing fishing
power for some baitboat fishing fleets targeting skipjack.

46/1235: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/interdecadalvariabilityofanchovetaabundanceandovercapacityofthefisheryinperu> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Interdecadal variability of anchoveta abundance and overcapacity of the fishery in Peru
Paleontological and historical stock abundance estimates indicate that pelagic fish populations inhabiting upwelling ecosystems undergo large interdecadal variations in abundance with amplitudes equal to, if not larger than, the interannual variability. The interdecadal variability is characterized by periods of high and low abundance, termed “pseudo-cycles”, because of their irregular periodicity. Fisheries targeting small pelagic fish suffer from overall overcapitalization, like many other fisheries, but also from an additional overcapitalization problem: a phase displacement between rapid fish population decreases and a slower disinvestment which follows. This lag produces economic hardship.

Here we document the fish:fishery relationship for the Peruvian anchoveta. Anchoveta pseudo-cycles of 20 to >100 years are observed, with the present stock abundance most likely located near upper part of the cycle. Fleet overcapacity expressed as the proportion of unused present capacity is estimated at 72% and processing overcapacity at 89%. A simple bio-economic model demonstrates the risks associated with the pseudo-periodicity in fish stock abundance in conjunction with fishery investment, open access, and overcapacity: a timing bomb for the fishing sector. The lag between disinvestment and decrease in fish abundance is quantified. A reduction of the fishing and processing capacity and measures to decrease the investment lag are recommended to limit the social, economical and political tensions that will result from the expected decrease in stock abundance. Finally, some management options to reduce these risks are discussed.

47/1236: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/scientificadviceforfisheriesmanagementinwestafricainthecontextofglobalchangeinmarinesystems> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Scientific advice for fisheries management in West Africa in the context of global change in marine systems
The paper presents the process of scientific advice on fisheries in West African countries. Based on a survey among scientists, managers and fishermen representatives, it reveals that there are weaknesses within the research institutes regarding the institutional and human resources, which may lead to negative impacts on their functioning and the quality of their products. Concerning the administration users of the advice, there are problems relating to the weakness of human resources and also the lack of clear frameworks for fisheries sector policies and for the decision-making processes. The work also highlights the absence of a mechanism enabling the promotion of the scientific information towards the professionals. It finally appears that there is a need for improvement of the transmission and legibility of the scientific advice. In the context of global change in marine systems improvement of scientific advice appears to be the cornerstone of fishery management.

48/1237: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thedevelopmentofanoperationalmodelandsimulationprocedurefortestinguncertaintiesintheatlanticbigeyethunnusobesusstockassessment> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : The development of an operational model and simulation procedure for testing uncertainties in the Atlantic Bigeye (Thunnus obesus) stock assessment
Atlantic bigeye is a highly migratory species widely distributed through the whole Atlantic.
Recent assessments conducted by the ICCAT SCRS are highly uncertain due to the large
uncertainties in biological parameters, such as M, as well as in fishery statistics (e.g., IUU
fleets, juvenile catch) or abundance indexes. Similar uncertainties can be found in the Indian or
Pacific stocks. The development of an operational model has been recommended by different
regional fishery organizations as a good approach to investigate the sensitivity of the
assessment results to the uncertainties in the different inputs. This document presents an
operational model for the Atlantic bigeye as part of a simulation framework that will allow the
performance of management strategies based on current and improved biological knowledge
and management procedures to be evaluated.

49/1238: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactoftrophicinteractionsonproductionfunctionsandontheecosystemresponsetofishingasimulationapproach> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Impact of trophic interactions on production functions and on the ecosystem response to fishing: a simulation approach
A simulation model is developed to analyse the variability of production functions in all exploited virtual ecosystem. We assume that a complex food web call be represented by a set of trophic components interacting through predation. Each component has a set of recruitment, growth, and Survival models, a catch level and trophic preference function. Prey are Consumed according to their abundance and predators' trophic preference functions are estimated ill a pristine system. A parameter for the food consumption per unit biomass describes foraging for each trophic component. The FishBase database is used to parameterise some of the major processes in a generic model. A commercial fishery targets mostly high trophic levels through a set selectivity function. Some key ecosystem features are assessed in simulations: the intensity of top-down and of bottom-up controls, and the degree of trophic opportunism. Top-down control is the regulation of lower food-web components by one or several upper-levels predators. Bottom-up control is the regulation of trophic components by their prey. Results show that biological production functions are highly dependent on predation parameters and vary differently according to trophic level. Fishing activity modifies the biomass distribution between components and strongly affects higher trophic levels more sensitive to exploitation. Trophic dynamics within the system are altered through the rates of predation mortality. In systems where predation mortality is high, top-down control dominates and fishing affects all food web components. These "fishing-controlled" systems display compensatory mechanisms through a released predation control. We also show that systems where productivity is dependent on prey abundance are more "environment-controlled" and seem more sensitive to overexploitation, particularly the higher trophic levels. Trophic Opportunism tends to dampen the propagation of top-down or bottom-up controls through the food web and thus stabilizes the ecosystem. Trophic relationships are therefore essential ecosystems characteristics that determine production and response to exploitation. Their routine analysis is a key part of the ecosystem approach.

50/1239: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/schoolingbehaviourandenvironmentalforcinginrelationtoanchovetadistributionananalysisacrossmultiplespatialscales> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Schooling behaviour and environmental forcing in relation to anchoveta distribution: an analysis across multiple spatial scales
The Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) supports the highest worldwide fishery landings and varies in space and time over many scales. Here we present the first comprehensive sub-mesocale study of anchoveta distribution in relation to the environment. During November 2004, we conducted a behavioural ecology survey off central Peru and used a series of observational and sampling tools including SST and CO2 sensors, Niskin bottles, CTD probes, zooplankton sampling, stomach content analysis, echo-sounder, multibeam sonar, and bird observations. The sub-mesoscale survey areas were chosen from mesoscale acoustic surveys. A routine coast-wide (not, vert, similar2000 km) acoustic survey performed just after the sub-mesoscale surveys, provided information at an even larger population scale. The availability of nearly concurrent sub-mesoscale, mesoscale and coast-wide information on anchoveta distribution allowed for a unique multi-scale synthesis. At the sub-mesoscale (100s m to km) physical processes (internal waves and frontogenesis) concentrated plankton into patches and determined anchoveta spatial distribution. At the mesoscale (10s km) location relative to the zone of active upwelling (and age of the upwelled water) and the depth of the oxycline had strong impacts on the anchoveta. Finally, over 100s km the size of the productive area, as defined by the upwelled cold coastal waters, was the determining factor. We propose a conceptual view of the relative importance of social behaviour and environmental (biotic and abiotic) processes on the spatial distribution of anchoveta. Our ecological space has two y-axis; one based on self-organization (social behaviour), and the other based on the environmental processes. At scales from the individual (10s cm), to the nucleus (m), social behaviour (e.g. the need to school) drives spatial organization. At scales larger than the school, environmental forces are the main driver of fish distribution. The conceptual ecosystem models presented in this paper may provide the final links needed to develop accurate forecasts of the spatial distribution of anchoveta over multiple scales.

51/1240: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bycatchanddiscardsoftheeuropeanpurseseinetunafisheryintheindianoceanestimationandcharacteristicsfortheperiod> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : By-catch and discards of the European purse seine tuna fishery in the Indian Ocean. Estimation and characteristics for the 2003-2007 period
By-catch and tuna discards estimation and characteristics for the various species groups are presented for the European purse seine tuna fishery (France and Spain) for the period 2003-2007. Data were collected through French and Spanish observer programs representing a total of 1,958 observed fishing sets. Total by-catch and tuna discards estimation were derived from a stratification based on fishing mode, seasons (quarters) and spatial area. The estimation relied on raising factors based on major commercial tuna catch expressed in tons per 1000 t of tuna landed. Total tuna discards and by-catch was estimated to be about 9,585 t corresponding to 35.5 t per 1000 t of tuna landed. Tuna discards represents 54 % (19.2 t/1000 t) of the total amount, followed by fishes (33.7 %, 12.0 t/1000 t), sharks (10.1, 3.6 t/1000 t), billfishes (1.5 %, 0.5 t/1000 t), and rays (0.7 %, 0.2 t/1000 t). By-catch species composition, main species length and sex structure, and percentage of utilization are also presented. Total by-catch estimates and ratios are compared with those previously published in the literature. The issue raised by the choice of a consistent extrapolation method is finally discussed

52/1241: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howtorecognizethefishinthetreesmethodologicalreflectionsforthefishpopulationassessmentinanartificialreservoir> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : How to recognize the fish in the trees ? Methodological reflections for the fish population assessment in an artificial reservoir
Estimate the impact of the fishery pressure on a fish population is an important current goal for the research programs. The present work takes place in such a frame, applied to lacustrine environment. The experiments were performed in two contrasted Malian lakes, from the ex-ploitation point of view. Facing the difficulty to get historical series, an estimate of the tempo-ral evolution is appraised through the comparison of these two lakes which are at different fishery levels. The acoustic prospecting ran into difficulties which are specific to some conti-nental waters areas, where various types of vegetation are present. In these cases, fish like usually remaining hidden into these areas. After some experience, it becomes possible to clas-sify visually a large part of the echotraces; nevertheless it remains a part of subjectivity and the processing is fastidious. Statistical methods have therefore been tested in order to find keys to automate the processing. But even in the best case, the use of these keys depends a lot on the fish behaviour, which is very different from one lake to the other, with schooling fish in the more exploited reservoir, and dispersed fish in the other.

53/1242: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

54/1243: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

55/1244: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/standardizedcpueforjuvenileyellowfinskipjackandbigeyetunafromtheeuropeanpurseseinefleetintheatlanticoceanfromto> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Standardized CPUE for juvenile yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tunafrom the european purse seine fleet in the atlantic ocean from 1991 to 2006
In this document three abundance indices are obtained for the juveniles of tropical tunas (yellowfin (≤30Kg.), skipjack and bigeye of European purse seine fishery in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006 using generalized linear models (delta-lognormal model). Catch and effort data come from detailed daily logbooks. Catch rates are modelled using the delta lognormal model. The method estimates a combined CPUE of the three species from aggregated catches, and the proportion of catches for each species, so the final individual abundance indices are calculated multiplying both estimators for each species. Explanatory variables used in the analysis are: year, zone, quarter, harvest capacity, country, and starting date of the vessel. Year and zone are the most explanatory factors of variability in CPUEs and vessel characteristics have a minor explanatory effect in observed catch rates.

56/1245: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/madepreliminaryinformationonanewecprojecttoproposemeasurestomitigateadverseimpactsofopenoceanfisheriestargetinglargepelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : MADE: preliminary information on a new EC project to propose measures to mitigate adverse impacts of open ocean fisheries targeting large pelagic fish
A particular attention has been paid worldwide on longline fisheries as they catch considerable amount of by-catch (seabirds, turtles, sharks, etc.). Seabird and turtles by-catch mitigation methods have now been established in many fisheries worldwide, but similar efforts must be put to reduce by-catch of sharks. In the same ecosystems, another issue attracts the attention of international tuna commissions: the use of drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs). These FADs are responsible for major catches of juvenile tuna and non target pelagic species (sharks). Finally, the effects of thousands of FADs released regularly in the tropical oceans are unknown, and must be studied to estimate if they impact the biology of pelagic species. The European open ocean tropical and Mediterranean pelagic fishery (Spain, France, Portugal, Italy, Greece) is one of the main sources of catch, income and employment for the European fishery, with interactions with many developing countries. The MADE project was set up to develop measures to mitigate adverse impacts of fisheries targeting large pelagic fish in the open ocean: purse seiners using FADs and longliners. This 4-year project, started in mid-2008 within the 7th EC Framework Programme, and is a cooperative research carried out under the coordination of IRD, including 13 scientific institutions belonging to 6 European Countries and 2 ICPC countries in three different areas (Mediterranean Sea, Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean). Two main categories of mitigation measures will be studied: spatial management issues (e.g. closure areas) and technical solutions to reduce by-catch in these fisheries. The main concept of MADE is to follow a multi-disciplinary and comparative approach, combining biological and technological studies with economical analyses in different sites (Indian and Atlantic oceans, Mediterranean Sea), with a particular effort to closely associate fishers.

57/1246: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/therelevanceofspeciesbasedindicatorsasatoolforevaluatingthestructureofexploitedfishassemblagesacomparativestudyoftwotropicallakesinmaliwestafrica> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : The relevance of species-based indicators as a tool for evaluating the structure of exploited fish assemblages : a comparative study of two tropical lakes in Mali, West Africa
A comparative study of the fish communities in two lake ecosystems in Mali (Lakes Manantali and Selingue) was based on monitoring small-scale fishery landings for a 13-month period. The main difference between the two lakes is the fishing pressure, being higher in Lake Selingue and lower in Lake Manantali. The effects of fishing on the structure of the fish communities in the two lakes were analysed with the use of diversity indices, rank species abundance (RSA) and abundance–biomass comparative curve (ABC) methods. The diversity differed significantly between the lakes, being higher for Lake Selingue. Analysis of the community structure, using RSA curves, indicated a more regular distribution of the weights between fish species for Lake Selingue than for Lake Manantali. The two lakes exhibited different exploited fish community structures. For Lake Selingue, the fishery was based on smaller-sized species, compared to that for Lake Manantali. The indicators based on the species composition of exploited fish communities, in terms of abundance and life-history traits, seemed to be more relevant in this study. Indicators such as diversity indices and RSA curves depend strongly on the exploitation strategy, being unreliable for evaluating exploited fish communities from catch data.

58/1247: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thedynamicsofcollapseinworldfisheries> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : The dynamics of collapse in world fisheries
The fear of a rapid depletion of world fish stocks because of over-exploitation is increasing. Analysis of 1519 main series of the FAO world fisheries catch database over the last 50 years reveals that 366 fisheries' collapses occurred, that is nearly one fishery of four. The robustness of this result is tested by performing several complementary analyses using different conservative options. The number of collapses has been stable through time since 1950s indicating no improvement in the overall fisheries management. Three typical patterns emerge from the analysis of catch series during the period preceding the collapses: smooth collapse (33%), i.e. a long regular decline, erratic collapse (45%), i.e. a fall after several ups and downs, and a plateau-shaped collapse (21%), i.e. a sudden fall after a relatively long and stable persistence of high level of catches. Using a simple mathematical model, we relate the plateau-shaped collapses (which are, by nature, the most difficult to predict) to surreptitiously increasing exploitation and a depensatory mechanism at low population levels. Thus, a stable level of catch over several years is shown to conceal the risk of a sudden collapse. This jeopardizes the common assumption that considers the stability of catch as a goal for fisheries sustainability.

59/1248: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecologicalnichesandareasofoverlapofthesquatlobstermunidapleuroncodesmonodonandanchovetaengraulisringensoffperu> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Ecological niches and areas of overlap of the squat lobster 'munida' (Pleuroncodes monodon) and anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) off Peru
The world's largest mono-specific fishery, the Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) fishery, has been the subject of many studies since the 1960s. Details of its relationship with other species have mainly focused on alternations with sardine, Sardinops sagax, and little effort has so far been paid to interactions with other species sharing the same ecosystem. This is the case for Pleuroncodes monodon, the crustacean squat lobster or 'munida', which has become highly abundant along the Peruvian coast since the mid-1990s. Munida is now an important prey for seabirds, mammals and coastal predatory fish. Knowledge of patterns of distribution and ecological niche of munida is scarce however off Peru. Here we describe and compare spatial patterns of distribution of anchoveta and munida and their ecological niches based on data from 26 acoustic surveys performed along the Peruvian coast between 1998 and 2006. The results indicate that munida and anchoveta share ecological niches but that munida is restricted to the coldest part of the productive cold coastal waters whereas anchoveta do not present any temperature preference over a large range (14–23 °C). The recent increase in munida abundance off Peru is concomitant with colder conditions; with their onset munida extended its range from central Chile northwards. Off Peru the very shallow oxycline keeps munida from its usual bottom habitat and has forced it to adopt pelagic behaviour.

60/1249: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystemparticomparingtrophiclinkagesunderlaninaandelninoconditions> : SCORE = 0.62052256
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part I: Comparing trophic linkages under La Niña and El Niño conditions
The El Niño of 1997–98 was one of the strongest warming events of the past century; among many other effects, it impacted phytoplankton along the Peruvian coast by changing species composition and reducing biomass. While responses of the main fish resources to this natural perturbation are relatively well known, understanding the ecosystem response as a whole requires an ecotrophic multispecies approach. In this work, we construct trophic models of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem (NHCE) and compare the La Niña (LN) years in 1995–96 with the El Niño (EN) years in 1997–98. The model area extends from 4°S–16°S and to 60 nm from the coast. The model consists of 32 functional groups of organisms and differs from previous trophic models of the Peruvian system through: (i) division of plankton into size classes to account for EN-associated changes and feeding preferences of small pelagic fish, (ii) increased division of demersal groups and separation of life history stages of hake, (iii) inclusion of mesopelagic fish, and (iv) incorporation of the jumbo squid (Dosidicus gigas), which became abundant following EN. Results show that EN reduced the size and organization of energy flows of the NHCE, but the overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators, detritus and export) of the ecosystem was maintained. The reduction of diatom biomass during EN forced omnivorous planktivorous fish to switch to a more zooplankton-dominated diet, raising their trophic level. Consequently, in the EN model the trophic level increased for several predatory groups (mackerel, other large pelagics, sea birds, pinnipeds) and for fishery catch. A high modeled biomass of macrozooplankton was needed to balance the consumption by planktivores, especially during EN condition when observed diatoms biomass diminished dramatically. Despite overall lower planktivorous fish catches, the higher primary production required-to-catch ratio implied a stronger ecological impact of the fishery and stresses the need for precautionary management of fisheries during and after EN. During EN energetic indicators such as the lower primary production/total biomass ratio suggest a more energetically efficient ecosystem, while reduced network indicators such as the cycling index and relative ascendency indicate of a less organized state of the ecosystem. Compared to previous trophic models of the NHCE we observed: (i) a shrinking of ecosystem size in term of energy flows, (ii) slight changes in overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators and detritus), and (iii) the use of alternate pathways leading to a higher ecological impact of the fishery for planktivorous fish.

61/1250: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.

62/1251: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deepseaconferenceonthegovernanceandmanagementofdeepseafisheries> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Deep Sea 2003: Conference on the Governance and Management of Deep-sea Fisheries
INTRODUCTION: 
The growing capacity of fishermen to repeat fishing operations at some known locations thanks to, for instance, precise maps of past activity and global positioning systems (GPS), is becoming more apparent as fine-scale information on fishing activities becomes available. Aggregated declarations at the level of statistical square levels hides the fine-scale information and the possibility to analyze small-scale fishing strategies. When available, information on fishing effort such as observers' declarations or vessel monitoring system (VMS) reports may indicate that the tendency of specific-area repeat fishing is sometimes frequent (Rijnsdorp, van Mourik Broekman and Visser 2000). In this paper, we are concerned by the fact that small-scale fishing tactics may interfere in the relation between commercial catch per unit effort (CPUE) and indices of abundance and potentially reduce the relevancy of mean CPUE for resource analysis purposes. The relationship between CPUE and abundance can be biased (e.g. Hillborn and Walters 1987, Rahikainen and Kuikka 2002) as it is the product of several processes such as schooling behaviour of fish, variation in catchability, interactions between fishing vessels and spatial distribution of fishing effort.

In this paper, we consider the trawl fishery for Patagonian toothfish (Dissostichus eleginoides) off Kerguelen Islands in the Indian sector of the Southern Ocean. In spite of difficult conditions of exploitation, the fishery increased until the end of the 1990s. The fishery can be characterized in the context of this paper by the fact that (a) it is mono-specific - toothfish alone is caught, (b) fishermen do a lot of repetitive tows and (c), management rules changed a few years after the fishery started, switching from global to individual quotas. Making use of the spatio-temporal distribution of tows, Bez, De Oliveira and Duhamel (in press) showed that a mean depletion effect of 5 to 10 percent per tow exists under repetitive fishing for toothfish. This local depletion is stronger for icefish (Champsocephalus gunnari) and grey rockcod (Lepidonotothen squamifrons). However these local depletion effects are weak and the fluctuations observed around the decreasing trends can be attributed to changes in the fishing efficiencies from one tow to the next. The objective of this paper is to use the repetitive fishing to estimate fishing efficiency distributions and to interpret their changes with regards to the change in regulations.

Here, "local fishing efficiency" measures the capacity of a unit of effort to catch fish effectively accessible to fishing (Gascuel 1993). As with all components of catchability, the local fishing efficiency should be estimated with CPUEs based on the same underlying fish abundance, which is never possible. Robson (1966) circumvented this difficulty by assuming homogeneity of fish density over quadrats. Laurec (1977) used geostatistical tools to account for the differences between two CPUEs when using them. Here, we use the territorial behaviour of toothfish and the existence of a series of repetitive fishing to build ratios of consecutive CPUEs to estimate fishing efficiency probability distributions.

63/1252: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anadvectiondiffusionreactionsizestructuredfishpopulationdynamicsmodelcombinedwithastatisticalparameterestimationprocedureapplicationtotheindianoceanskipjacktunafishery> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : An advection-diffusion-reaction size-structured fish population dynamics model combined with a statistical parameter estimation procedure: Application to the Indian Ocean skipjack tuna fishery
We develop an advection-di®usion size-structured ¯sh population
dynamics model and apply it to simulate the skipjack tuna population in the
Indian Ocean. The model is fully spatialized, and movements are parame-
terized with oceanographical and biological data; thus it naturally reacts to
environment changes. We ¯rst formulate an initial-boundary value problem
and prove existence of a unique positive solution. We then discuss the numer-
ical scheme chosen for the integration of the simulation model. In a second
step we address the parameter estimation problem for such a model. With
the help of automatic di®erentiation, we derive the adjoint code which is used
to compute the exact gradient of a Bayesian cost function measuring the dis-
tance between the outputs of the model and catch and length frequency data.
A sensitivity analysis shows that not all parameters can be estimated from the
data. Finally twin experiments in which pertubated parameters are recovered
from simulated data are successfully conducted.

64/1253: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/reproductivedynamicsofswordfishxiphiasgladiusinthesouthwesternindianoceanreunionislandpartoocytedevelopmentsexualmaturityandspawning> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) in the southwestern Indian Ocean (Reunion Island). Part 1: oocyte development, sexual maturity and spawning
The reproductive dynamics of swordfish (Xiphias gladius) was investigated from catches of the Reunion Island-based longline swordfish fishery between 19-25 degrees S and 48-54 degrees E. Thus, 1727 swordfish (size range 75-289 cm, lower jaw-to-fork length, LJFL) were sampled on board commercial fishing vessels during the period of May 1998 to January 2001. Reproductive activity was assessed using macroscopic gonad characteristics, trends of gonadal indexes for both sexes, oocyte size-frequency distributions and microscopic investigation of oocyte development stages. Size at first maturity (L-50) for female and male swordfish was estimated in Indian Ocean for the first time. L50 was estimated at 170 cm and 120 cm (LJFL) for females and males, respectively. Spawning occurred from October to April in the vicinity of Reunion Island where sex ratio of caught populations fluctuated seasonally. The seasonal changes in sex ratio and the incidence of larger individuals at the beginning of the spawning season provide some preliminary indications of synchronized movements of swordfish between spawning grounds and neighboring regions. Our results add significantly to knowledge about the reproductive biology of swordfish in the southwestern Indian Ocean. An overview of the available information on reproductive biology and dynamics of swordfish in Indian Ocean and eastern Pacific indicated that spawning activity is localized in discrete areas, and showed that there is incomplete information on spawning grounds in this extended area.

65/1254: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fadiofishaggregatingdevicesasintrumentedobservatoriesofpelagicecosystemsaeuropeanunionfundedprojectondevelopmentofnewobservationalinstrumentsandthebehavioroffisharoundfads> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : FADIO (Fish Aggregating Devices as Intrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) : a European Union funded project on development of new observational instruments and the behavior of fish around FADs
Associative behavior is a major component of the life of pelagic fish. Tropical tuna and other
species are often found in association with floating objects, with other animals, and with topographic
features such as seamounts. Because fish are more abundant, occur in larger schools, or are easier to catch
when aggregated, fishermen extensively use these associations to increase their catches. More than 50%
of the world tuna catches are made from schools associated with floating objects.
There is a clear need for new technologies to study these associations and to propose innovative
methods of management. The European Union has funded a project to study the requirements of future
assessment tools and to develop prototypes. The project: FADIO1 (Fish Aggregating Devices as
Instrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) has conducted five extensive field surveys of the
Western Indian Ocean in conjunction with the large-scale purse seine fishery operating on drifting FADs
that operates in this region.
The objectives of FADIO are to develop new observation and assessment tools and collect data
on the behavior of pelagic fish around drifting FADs. Two categories of instruments are being developed
in collaboration with manufacturers: (1) autonomous buoys equipped with 360º sonar and cameras to
observe aggregations, acoustic receivers to detect individuals carrying electronic tags and satellite uplinks
for both, (2) new electronic tags with ecological sensors. Various field experiments are conducted to
assist in the development of these prototypes. During these scientific cruises, different instruments and
methods are used to document the behavior of associated species concurrently resident on the same FAD,
including: fishing and acoustic tagging, passive and active acoustic surveys, and underwater visual
census. Those observations, combined together, provide valuable insights in the dynamics of FAD
aggregations.
These instruments can be used in the future (i) to build the foundation for future observatories of
pelagic ecosystems, using FADs as scientific platforms for observation and data collection, (ii) to
understand the effects of FADs on tuna and other associated species, even in remote areas, (iii) to help
reducing by-catch around FADs. FADIO began in 2003 and will end in Oct. 2006, with an exposition and
workshop at the Oceanographic Museum in Monaco.

66/1255: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/visualcensusesoftropicalfishaggregationsonartificialreefsslateversusvideorecordingtechniques> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Visual censuses of tropical fish aggregations on artificial reefs: slate versus video recording techniques
Artificial coastal reefs were initially installed off Reunion Island (SW Indian Ocean) in order to attract and catch small pelagic fish of economic importance for the local fishery. These artificial reefs also attract a high density of juvenile coral reef fish, especially after recruitment. Because of high species richness and density, a suitable method of evaluating diversity and abundance in such assemblages is needed. An experiment was conducted in situ for 1 year in order to test which of the two visual techniques, slate or video recording, would be the most suitable for sampling artificial reefs. For the quantitative study, a rope framework (four belt transects each measuring 24×3 m) was used to ease the movement of the divers. To avoid bias due to time variations, the study was conducted under limited time in situ. The advantages and disadvantages of the two techniques regarding the accuracy of qualitative and quantitative results are discussed. The qualitative study results show that the slate technique is the most accurate one for determining species richness. In the quantitative study, factors such as species characteristics (ecological type), attractiveness (relationship between fish and diver) and abundance of fish communities around the artificial reefs appear to influence our results on the comparison of the two techniques. Of 13 [`]permanent' (observed in more than 75% of dives) species, 6 returned a similar frequency of detection by slate and video (Lutjanus kasmira, Lutjanus bengalensis, Priacanthus hamrur, Chaetodon kleinii, Heniochus diphreutes, Mulloides vanicolensis); these were then selected for comparison of the techniques using quantitative data. The correlation between video and slate census results is high, but, in comparison with the slate census, the video census underestimates abundance, especially for low values. A corrected index is proposed to remedy this underestimation; it could be used for video surveys conducted on species responding well to video detection (as below).



1222) Recherche du mot : Carangoides orthogrammus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carangoides_orthogrammus)


1223) Recherche du mot : blue sea chub (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/kyphosus_cinerascens)


1224) Recherche du mot : Neoanchisquilla tuberculata (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/neoanchisquilla_tuberculata)


1225) Recherche du mot : AMSR-E (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/amsre)


1226) Recherche du mot : trench (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/trench)


1227) Recherche du mot : Ommosudis lowsi (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ommosudis_lowsi)


1228) Recherche du mot : logerhead sea turtle (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/caretta_caretta)


1229) Recherche du mot : Remorina albescens (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/remorina_albescens)


1230) Recherche du mot : Pêche scientifique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/scientific_fishing)


1231) Recherche du mot : Pristipomoides filamentosus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pristipomoides_filamentosus)


1232) Recherche du mot : Thysanoteuthis rhombus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thysanoteuthis_rhombus)


1233) Recherche du mot : Thazard atlantique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_maculatus)


1234) Recherche du mot : Epinephelus albomarginatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/epinephelus_albomarginatus)


1235) Recherche du mot : Dynamique des pêcheries (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/population_dynamics)


1236) Recherche du mot : Opération de pêche (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fishing_operation)


1237) Recherche du mot : Trachurus capensis dans worms !!!  (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/trachurus_trachurus_capensis)


1238) Recherche du mot : Bonite orientale (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sarda_orientalis)


1239) Recherche du mot : stomac content (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/stomac_content)


1240) Recherche du mot : Lagocephalus sceleratus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lagocephalus_sceleratus)


1241) Recherche du mot : Scomberomorus guttatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_guttatus)


1242) Recherche du mot : Octopus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/Octopus_vulgaris)
1/1256: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/assessingtheimpactoffisheriesondemersalfishassemblagesofthemauritaniancontinentalshelfusingdominancecurves> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Assessing the impact of fisheries on demersal fish assemblages of the Mauritanian continental shelf, 1987–1999, using dominance curves
The assemblages of demersal fish and associated species of the Mauritanian continental
shelf are characterized on the basis of annual trawl surveys conducted during the period
1987e1999. Species composition is dominated by exploited species (Dentex spp., Pagellus
bellottii, and Octopus vulgaris). Dominance curves (Abundance Biomass Comparison
plots) were used to evaluate the impact of fisheries, which have increased in magnitude over
several decades. The diagnosis of a ‘‘stressed'' assemblage seems to converge with the
results of a similar study conducted off Senegal, but here there was no trend in impact
during the period of study. The sensitivity of the present results to the various ways of
considering the available taxonomic information is also analysed.

2/1257: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bioeconomicmodellingofthemauritanianoctopusfishery> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Bio-economic modelling of the Mauritanian octopus fishery
A bio-economic model of the Mauritanian octopus fishery has been developed. The biological basis of
the model is an adaptation of an existing analytical model, i.e. a production model designed explicitly for
octopus biology and the observed exploitation pattern (age-based model, computed on one monthly step,
etc). In the current version of the model, both the biological and economic components of the model have
been designed to reflect the fleet structure, with one small-scale and three industrial fleet segments. The
economic component of the model is based on the prices received by, and the operating (opportunity) costs
of, each segment. When coupled with the biological component, this allows an estimation of resource rents
per segment associated with different exploitation levels and fleet structures. Within the context of a new
management plan for the Mauritanian octopus fishery, the model enables an overall assessment of the
management system to be made, and can simulate the likely impact of a range of management measures.

3/1258: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/decadalenvironmentalandecologicalchangesinthecanarycurrentlargemarineecosystemandadjacentwaterspatternsofconnectionsandteleconnection> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Decadal environmental and ecological changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem and adjacent waters : Patterns of connections and teleconnection
In order to explore decadal changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem (LME), wind and SST data collected by merchant ships are extracted from the Comprehensive Ocean Atmosphere Data Set (COADS) database from 1950 to 1995 within sixteen boxes along the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from 10°N up to 43°N.  Potential biases are reviewed and discussed when considering long-term changes and large spatial resolution. The heterogeneity of the seasonal patterns in the Canary current is described.  Decadal environmental changes are explored using Sea Surface Temperature (SST) data.  In the early and mid-1970s, an intensive cooling had a large latitudinal extension that affected the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from Spain to Senegal.  This cooling period was followed by a warming period, which started in the 1980s. Fisheries, fish stock abundance as well as fish population distributions have drastically changed during the last five decades. The sardine populations off Morocco widely fluctuated in a disconnected manner and a substantial increase in biomass was observed in fishing zone C (located between 20°N and 27°N) during the mid-1970s and mid-1980s. Several outbursts of fish populations (Micromesistius poutassou, Macrorhamphosus scolopax and M. gracilis, Octopus vulgaris, Balistes carolinensis) were observed during the last three decades in the Canary Current. In the case of the latter species it was connected with the outburst populations which took place in the Gulf of Guinea LME.  Upwelling intensity and sea surface temperature are strongly linked and are thought to affect both spatial distribution and abundance of fish in the Canary Current LME.  Ecosystems appear to be connected at very large scales through climatic teleconnection between the Northern and Central Atlantic but also between the Pacific and the Atlantic as the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index and the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events seem to have a major impact on the dynamics of the upwelling in the Canary Current.

4/1259: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialconsiderationsforthedakhlastockofoctopusvulgarisindicatorspatternsandfisheriesinteractions> : SCORE = 1.253645
Doc : Spatial considerations for the Dakhla stock of Octopus vulgaris: indicators, patterns and fisheries interactions
The common octopus (Octopus vulgaris) is the target species of the cephalopod fishery that exploits two stocks, Dakhla and Cap Blanc, off southern Morocco (26 degrees N 21 degrees N), an area commonly referred to as the Saharan Bank. Octopus vulgaris is also one of the most abundant demersal species in this highly productive area, and plays a key role in the upwelling ecosystem. Spatial patterns of the main phases of the octopus vulgaris life cycle of the Dakhla stock are described, using trawl surveys carried out twice a year from 1998 to 2003. Using geostatistics and spatial indicators, mature females and juveniles are analysed and mapped to characterize the main features of the spawning and recruitment phases. There are clear distinctions between the spatial patterns of the spawning and recruitment phases: juveniles are more coastal, less spatially dispersed, more anisotropically distributed, and more patchy. Our results suggest that the spatial pattern of the Octopus vulgaris Dakhla stock is different from that of the same species in other ecosystems such as the Mediterranean. GIS reveals that the spawning-stock biomass is globally more accessible to the industrial fleet than to the artisanal one, a finding contrary to contemporary thinking and with important resource management implications.

5/1260: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/approachestoresolvingcephalopodmovementandmigrationpatterns> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Approaches to resolving cephalopod movement and migration patterns
Cephalopod movement occurs during all phases of the life history, with the abundance and location of cephalopod populations strongly influenced by the prevalence and scale of their movements. Environmental parameters, such as sea temperature and oceanographic processes, have a large influence on movement at the various life cycle stages, particularly those of oceanic squid. Tag recapture studies are the most common way of directly examining cephalopod movement, particularly in species which are heavily fished. Electronic tags, however, are being more commonly used to track cephalopods, providing detailed small- and large-scale movement information. Chemical tagging of paralarvae through maternal transfer may prove to be a viable technique for tracking this little understood cephalopod life stage, as large numbers of individuals could be tagged at once. Numerous indirect methods can also be used to examine cephalopod movement, such as chemical analyses of the elemental and/or isotopic signatures of cephalopod hard parts, with growing interest in utilising these techniques for elucidating migration pathways, as is commonly done for fish. Geographic differences in parasite fauna have also been used to indirectly provide movement information, however, explicit movement studies require detailed information on parasite-host specificity and parasite geographic distribution, which is yet to be determined for cephalopods. Molecular genetics offers a powerful approach to estimating realised effective migration rates among populations, and continuing developments in markers and analytical techniques hold the promise of more detailed identification of migrants. To date genetic studies indicate that migration in squids is extensive but can be blocked by major oceanographic features, and in cuttlefish and octopus migration is more locally restricted than predictions from life history parameters would suggest. Satellite data showing the location of fishing lights have been increasingly used to examine the movement of squid fishing vessels, as a proxy for monitoring the movement of the squid populations themselves, allowing for the remote monitoring of oceanic species.

6/1261: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/combiningfishingclosurewithminimumsizeofcapturetoimproveoctopusproductioninsenegalesewatersanevaluationusinganalyticalmodelling> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Combining fishing closure with minimum size of capture to improve Octopus production in Senegalese waters: an evaluation using analytical modelling,
The dynamics of the Octopus vulgaris (Cuvier, 1797) population in Senegalese waters is
modelled to evaluate the potential impact of combining temporal fishing closure and minimum size of
capture on the production of this stock. The study is based on an analytical approach (cohort analysis
and simulation of captures on a monthly basis) adapted to the biological characteristics of O. vulgaris,
a short lifespan species. Several combinations of the two policies (minimum size and fishing closure)
are tested to complement the results of previous studies that evaluated each of the two strategies
separately, and in addition, to account for the fact that a positive synergistic effect can be expected.
The model covers the exploitation period from 1996 to 1999. As in previous simulations (of separate
effects), the present results focus on the instability of the responses (positive or negative, significant
or not, depending on the situation that prevailed each year) of the octopus stock to such policies. As
a consequence it is difficult to identify the ideal combination of closure and size limits that would
ensure a substantial improvement in production every year. Nevertheless, a 350g or 500g minimum size
policy seems to be profitable when combined with a two-month fishing closure in July–August. The
final discussion focuses on the fact that, in addition to its regional range, the present study presents
also a broader interest because the methodology proposed here aims to be applicable to other
cephalopods and short lived species fisheries.

7/1262: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/diagnosticdeletatdustockdepoulpeoctopusvulgarismauritaniensyntheseetnouvellesevaluationsparlapprocheglobale> : SCORE = 1.4330355
Doc : Diagnostic de l'état du stock de poulpe (Octopus vulgaris) mauritanien : Synthèse et nouvelles évaluations par l'approche globale.




1243) Recherche du mot : ratelier (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ratelier)


1244) Recherche du mot : Enoplometopus sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/enoplometopus_sp)


1245) Recherche du mot : Butterfishes, pomfrets nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/stromateidae)


1246) Recherche du mot : Lobotes surinamensis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lobotes_surinamensis)


1247) Recherche du mot : cottonmouth jack (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/uraspis_secunda)


1248) Recherche du mot : Stromatés, ailerons nca (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/stromateidae)


1249) Recherche du mot : Peces (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fish)
1/1263: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estructurapoblacionaldelospecesdemersalesenlazonanortedelcaribecolombianoenrelacionconelhabitatunaherramientaparaidentificarareasmarinasprotegidasamps> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Estructura poblacional de los peces demersales en la zona norte del caribe colombiano en relación con el hábitat: una herramienta para identificar áreas marinas protegidas (AMPs)




1250) Recherche du mot : Pez hacha  (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/argyropelecus_sladeni)


1251) Recherche du mot : Route (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/steaming_activity)


1252) Recherche du mot : Wind (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/wind)
1/1264: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/applicationofachlorophyllindexderivedfromsatellitedatatoinvestigatethevariabilityofphytoplanktoninthebenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Application of a chlorophyll index derived from satellite data to investigate the variability of phytoplankton in the Benguela ecosystem
The spatial and temporal variability in phytoplankton biomass in the Benguela ecosystem was investigated over an 8-year period using a chlorophyll index (Chi Index) derived from low resolution SeaWiFS ocean colour data. Monthly composite images revealed that the surface chlorophyll a concentration was high near the coast and generally decreased with distance offshore, allowing observation of the spatial extent of phytoplankton distribution in relation to coastal upwelling. The Chi Index was estimated as the integration of the chlorophyll a concentration from the coast to an offshore minimum level of 1mg m(-3). The index captured both the cross-shelf structure and the major part of the chlorophyllrich areas and was used to examine the average seasonality and annual variability in phytoplankton biomass. The data indicated that the Benguela ecosystem may be divided into two major sectors, north and south, with the divide occurring at the Luderitz upwelling cell where the Chi Index, the chlorophyll a concentration, and the offshore extent of phytoplankton were at a minimum. The index revealed a clearer and more contrasting seasonal pattern than simple coastal averaged values of chlorophyll. The latitudinal gradient and seasonal change in the index and wind forcing showed that the northern and southern sectors were out of phase and that the Benguela ecosystem appears to have a dipole structure. The interannual variation in biomass was highlighted and showed a high variability in the dipole, including shorter periods of synchronicity during 2001 and 2002. The simple Chi Index derived for the Benguela appears to be robust and generic enough to be applied to other upwelling systems as a reasonably good index of variability in phytoplankton biomass for comparative studies.

2/1265: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/windwavesandwingloadingmorphologicalspecializationmaylimitrangeexpansionofendangeredalbatrosses> : SCORE = 1.0832729
Doc : Wind, Waves, and Wing Loading: Morphological Specialization May Limit Range Expansion of Endangered Albatrosses
Among the varied adaptations for avian flight, the morphological traits allowing large-bodied albatrosses to capitalize on wind and wave energy for efficient long-distance flight are unparalleled. Consequently, the biogeographic distribution of most albatrosses is limited to the windiest oceanic regions on earth; however, exceptions exist. Species breeding in the North and Central Pacific Ocean (Phoebastria spp.) inhabit regions of lower wind speed and wave height than southern hemisphere genera, and have large intrageneric variation in body size and aerodynamic performance. Here, we test the hypothesis that regional wind and wave regimes explain observed differences in Phoebastria albatross morphology and we compare their aerodynamic performance to representatives from the other three genera of this globally distributed avian family. In the North and Central Pacific, two species (short-tailed P. albatrus and waved P. irrorata) are markedly larger, yet have the smallest breeding ranges near highly productive coastal upwelling systems. Short-tailed albatrosses, however, have 60% higher wing loading (weight per area of lift) compared to waved albatrosses. Indeed, calculated aerodynamic performance of waved albatrosses, the only tropical albatross species, is more similar to those of their smaller congeners (black-footed P. nigripes and Laysan P. immutabilis), which have relatively low wing loading and much larger foraging ranges that include central oceanic gyres of relatively low productivity. Globally, the aerodynamic performance of short-tailed and waved albatrosses are most anomalous for their body sizes, yet consistent with wind regimes within their breeding season foraging ranges. Our results are the first to integrate global wind and wave patterns with albatross aerodynamics, thereby identifying morphological specialization that may explain limited breeding ranges of two endangered albatross species. These results are further relevant to understanding past and potentially predicting future distributional limits of albatrosses globally, particularly with respect to climate change effects on basin-scale and regional wind fields.

3/1266: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trendsinprimaryproductionseasurfacetemperatureandwindinupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Trends in primary production, sea surface temperature and wind in upwelling systems (1998-2007)
We take advantage of the longest high quality single-sensor global data set of ocean color available today to explore recent trends in the primary productivity of the main eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUEs): California, Canary, Humboldt and Benguela. The chlorophyll-a concentration is used as a proxy for primary production. SST data from AVHRR and wind speed data from QuikSCAT are used in conjunction with this data set to analyse forcing mechanisms explaining the chlorophyll biomass.
Whereas the worldwide primary-production biomass shows on average decreasing trends, as already observed in the stratified part of the worldwide ocean, the productivity of most EBUEs increases during the study period. These contrasting trends are both significant, at least for the mid latitude range of 50°S-50°N, where the data coverage is sufficient for accurate estimation.
Probably due to the large scale atmospheric forcing, trends in sea surface temperature (SST) show non-significant relationships with the trends in biomass within upwelling systems, suggesting that SST anomalies cannot be used as an indicator of change in upwelling intensity in a continuous warming context. On the other hand, upwelling favourable equatorward winds show a significant correlation with the observed trends in biomass, suggesting that the trends in the trade winds are probably linked to an increase in the intensity of the Hadley cell circulation observed during the last several decades.

4/1267: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/theswimmingcrabcharybdissmithiidistributionbiologyandtrophicroleinthepelagicecosystemofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : The swimming crab Charybdis smithii: distribution, biology and trophic role in the pelagic ecosystem of the western Indian Ocean
Surface ‘‘swarms'' of the swimming crabs Charybdis smithii are still considered as an unusual phenomenon in the open Indian Ocean, although their dense pelagic aggregations were already reported in waters off the Indian coast and in the northern Arabian Sea. Based on an extensive large-scale data series taken over 45 years, we demonstrate that C. smithii is common in the pelagic provinces of the western Indian Ocean driven by the wind monsoon regime. Swimming crabs are dispersed by the monsoon currents throughout the equatorial Indian Ocean.They aggregate at night in the upper 150-m layer, where their estimated biomass derived from pelagic trawling data can exceed 130 kg km-2. Abundance of C. smithii can reach >15,000 ind. km-2 in July (i.e. the peak of the southwest monsoon), declines by 50-fold in March and is negligible in May. C. smithii is an important prey for more than 30 species of abundant epipelagic top predators. In turn, it feeds on mesopelagic species. This swimming crab is a major species of the intermediate trophic levels and represents a crucial seasonal trophic link in the open ocean ecosystem of the western Indian Ocean. Outbursts in pelagic waters of huge biomasses of ordinarily benthic crustaceans (C. smithii and Natosquilla investigatoris) are a remarkable feature of the Indian Ocean, although similar, but smaller, events are reported in the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans.

5/1268: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thethreedimensionalflightofredfootedboobiesadaptationstoforaginginatropicalenvironment> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : The three dimensional flight of red footed boobies: adaptations to foraging in a tropical environment
In seabirds a broad variety of morphologies, flight styles and feeding methods exist as an adaptation to optimal foraging in contrasted marine environments for a wide variety of prey types. Because of the low productivity of tropical waters it is expected that specific flight and foraging techniques have been selected there, but very few data are available. By using five different types of high-precision miniaturized logger (global positioning systems, accelerometers, time depth recorders, activity recorders, altimeters) we studied the way a seabird is foraging over tropical waters. Red-footed boobies are foraging in the day, never foraging at night, probably as a result of predation risks. They make extensive use of wind conditions, flying preferentially with crosswinds at median speed of 38 km h−1, reaching highest speeds with tail winds. They spent 66% of the foraging trip in flight, using a flap–glide flight, and gliding 68% of the flight. Travelling at low costs was regularly interrupted by extremely active foraging periods where birds are very frequently touching water for landing, plunge diving or surface diving (30 landings h−1). Dives were shallow (maximum 2.4 m) but frequent (4.5 dives h−1), most being plunge dives. While chasing for very mobile prey like flying fishes, boobies have adopted a very active and specific hunting behaviour, but the use of wind allows them to reduce travelling cost by their extensive use of gliding. During the foraging and travelling phases birds climb regularly to altitudes of 20–50 m to spot prey or congeners. During the final phase of the flight, they climb to high altitudes, up to 500 m, probably to avoid attacks by frigatebirds along the coasts. This study demonstrates the use by boobies of a series of very specific flight and activity patterns that have probably been selected as adaptations to the conditions of tropical waters.

6/1269: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingandcomparingthespawninghabitatsofanchovyengraulisencrasicolusandsardinesardinopssagaxinthesouthernbenguelaupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Characterizing and comparing the spawning habitats of anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem
The spawning habitats of anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus and sardine Sardinops sagax in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem were characterised by comparing their egg abundances with environmental variables measured concomitantly during two different survey programmes: the South African Sardine and Anchovy Recruitment Programme (SARP), which comprised monthly surveys conducted during the austral summers of 1993/94 and 1994/95; and annual pelagic spawner biomass surveys conducted in early summer (November/December) from 1984 to 1999. Eggs were collected using a CalVET net. Physical variables measured included sea surface temperature (SST), surface salinity, water depth, mixed-layer depth, and current and wind speeds; biological variables measured included phytoplankton biomass, and zooplankton biomass and production. Spawning habitat was identified by construction of quotient curves derived from egg abundance data and individual environmental variables, and relationships between these variables were determined using multivariate co-inertia analysis. SARP data showed that anchovy spawning was associated with cool water and moderate wind and current speeds, whereas sardine spawning was related to warmer water and more turbulent and unstable conditions (i.e. high wind speeds and strong currents) than for anchovy. SARP data also showed significant differences in selection of spawning habitat of the two species for all environmental variables. The relationship between anchovy egg abundance and salinity was strongly positive, but strongly negative with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. Sardine egg abundance was strongly positively related to current speed. The spawner biomass survey data demonstrated that the spawning habitat of anchovy was characterised by warm water and high salinity, whereas sardine spawning was associated with cool water and low salinity. The survey data showed significant differences in spawning habitat selection by anchovy and sardine for SST, salinity and zooplankton biomass, but not for the other environmental variables. There was a positive relationship between anchovy egg abundance and SST, salinity and mixed-layer depth, and a negative relationship with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. For sardine there was a strong positive relationship between egg abundance and current speed and wind speed. Differences in the results between the two survey programmes could be attributable to differences in their spatio-temporal coverage. Spawning habitats of anchovy and sardine appear to be substantially different, with anchovy being more specific than sardine in their preference of various environmental conditions.

7/1270: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/decadalenvironmentalandecologicalchangesinthecanarycurrentlargemarineecosystemandadjacentwaterspatternsofconnectionsandteleconnection> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Decadal environmental and ecological changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem and adjacent waters : Patterns of connections and teleconnection
In order to explore decadal changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem (LME), wind and SST data collected by merchant ships are extracted from the Comprehensive Ocean Atmosphere Data Set (COADS) database from 1950 to 1995 within sixteen boxes along the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from 10°N up to 43°N.  Potential biases are reviewed and discussed when considering long-term changes and large spatial resolution. The heterogeneity of the seasonal patterns in the Canary current is described.  Decadal environmental changes are explored using Sea Surface Temperature (SST) data.  In the early and mid-1970s, an intensive cooling had a large latitudinal extension that affected the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from Spain to Senegal.  This cooling period was followed by a warming period, which started in the 1980s. Fisheries, fish stock abundance as well as fish population distributions have drastically changed during the last five decades. The sardine populations off Morocco widely fluctuated in a disconnected manner and a substantial increase in biomass was observed in fishing zone C (located between 20°N and 27°N) during the mid-1970s and mid-1980s. Several outbursts of fish populations (Micromesistius poutassou, Macrorhamphosus scolopax and M. gracilis, Octopus vulgaris, Balistes carolinensis) were observed during the last three decades in the Canary Current. In the case of the latter species it was connected with the outburst populations which took place in the Gulf of Guinea LME.  Upwelling intensity and sea surface temperature are strongly linked and are thought to affect both spatial distribution and abundance of fish in the Canary Current LME.  Ecosystems appear to be connected at very large scales through climatic teleconnection between the Northern and Central Atlantic but also between the Pacific and the Atlantic as the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index and the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events seem to have a major impact on the dynamics of the upwelling in the Canary Current.

8/1271: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/surfacecurrentsduringanomalousupwellingseasonsoffcentralcalifornia> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Surface currents during anomalous upwelling seasons off central California
An extensive spatio-temporal surface currents dataset from central California, USA is
used to examine in detail two extreme years in the California Current. 2006 is
characterized by an extended period of calm winds during the critical early months of the
upwelling season (April, May). This lead to little or no upwelling over this period,
essentially delaying the onset of the upwelling season. 2007 is characterized by
extremely strong alongshore wind stress during the first quarter of the year and during the
early part of the upwelling season. This produced monthly-mean alongshore current
velocities over the mid-shelf for April 2007 in excess of 0.7 m s-1, which has not been
previously observed in this region for periods of more than a few days since the
installation of the HF radar instruments in 2001. Both of these extremes appear to have
had important consequences for the coastal ecosystem that have been documented
elsewhere, including the collapse of parts of the trophic web (2006) and the presence of
large quantities of water of deep origin over the continental shelf (2007). Understanding
and describing circulation and transport patterns during these extremes is important in
light of predictions from global climate change, which may cause these extreme
conditions to occur more frequently.

9/1272: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingforecastingandscenariosincomparableupwellingecosystemscaliforniacanaryandhumboldt> : SCORE = 0.4342753
Doc : Modelling, forecasting and scenarios in comparable upwelling ecosystems: California, Canary and Humboldt
The three eastern boundary ecosystems comparable to the Benguela ecosystem (BCE)
display differences and commonalities. The California (CalCE) and Humboldt Current
(HCE) ecosystems are continuous topographically, whereas the Canary Current
ecosystem (CanCE) is interrupted by the Gulf of Cadiz and the Canaries archipelago.
All have similar regimes of equatorward flow over shelf and slope associated with
upwelling and a subsurface poleward flow over the slope, though in the HCE multiple
flows and counter-flows appear offshore. All systems exhibit year round upwelling in
their centre and seasonal upwelling at their extremes as the trade wind systems that
drive them migrate north and south, though the HCE is strongly skewed toward the
equator. All systems vary on scales from the event or synoptic scale of a few days,
through seasonal, to inter-decadal and long term. Productivity of each system follows
the upwelling cycle, though intra-regional variations in nutrient content and forcing
cause significant variability within regions. The CanCE is relatively unproductive
compared to the CalCE and HCE as a result of differences in large scale circulation
between the Pacific and Atlantic. The latter two systems are dominated by El Niño -
Southern Oscillation (ENSO) variability on a scale of 4-7 years. Physical modeling
with the Princeton Ocean Model and the Regional Oceanic Modeling System has
advanced recently to the stage of reproducing realistic mesoscale features and energy
levels with climatic wind forcing. Operational forecasting by these models with
assimilation of sea surface temperature and other data is successfully implemented in
CalCE. On longer time scales, the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory model is able
to hindcast El Niño variability over the long term up to 2 years in advance. Empirical
ecological models in all three systems have attempted prediction of permissible catch
level (fractional Maximum Sustainable Yield), recruitment, catches or onset of
migration with lack of continued success, partly because discontinuous or inadequate
observations hamper model implementation and assessment. Moreover, empirical
models tuned to particular environments fail when fundamental regime shifts occur.
One of the most successful approaches is that of intensive monitoring of catch and
188 P. Fréon
environmental parameters linked to an informal Operational Management Procedure
(OMP) to inform fisheries management off Peru. This OMP contributed to
preservation of anchovy stock during the 1997-8 El Niño but remains to be formalized
or tested under varying conditions. Prediction on time scales of global warming are
uncertain because physical climate models still disagree on whether upwelling will
intensify or weaken. Possible scenarios on decadal scale based on warming or cooling
of waters in the Eastern Boundary Current systems can be proffered, albeit with little
confidence at present. Future approaches for all systems, including the BCE, will in
the long run likely combine coupled atmospheric/ocean models with biological process
models. Judicious application of purely statistical modeling based on inherent time
series properties will assist, though such techniques are unable to cope with regime
shifts.

10/1273: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/factorsdeterminingtheforagingrangeofwanderingalbatrossesduringtheirbreedingseasonanindividualbasedmodelibmapproach> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Factors determining the foraging range of wandering albatrosses during their breeding season : an individual based model (IBM) approach
Understanding the ecology of albatrosses at sea and in particular their foraging range and the location of their feeding zones is a critical issue for a better understanding of their population dynamics in a changing environment. Since the onset of satellite tracking techniques, it is possible to describe albatross trajectories in both space and time and infer their foraging ranges. Despite these important improvements in our observational capabilities, it is still difficult to evaluate the influence of local environmental cues such as wind and food availability on bird's trajectories. In this talk, we present an Individual Based Model (IBM) of flight pattern and foraging behaviour of free-ranging albatrosses (Diomedea exulans) breeding on the Crozet Islands, in the southwest Indian Ocean. We use winds measured by the satellite Quick-Sat and fields of food simulated by a trophodynamic model as forcing fields. In the IBM model, individuals can choose between different strategies using wind direction and food concentration. The development of the IBM follows a “pattern oriented modelling approach” (POM) in order to determine which strategy better fits the observed trajectories. The IBM is then used to infer potential new foraging areas when wind conditions and prey distribution change. The consequences of such environmental changes on albatross distribution are important issues regarding the conservation of this endangered oceanic top predator.

11/1274: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/alongshoreandtemporalvariabilityinchlorophyllaconcentrationinchileannearshorewaters> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Alongshore and temporal variability in chlorophyll a concentration in Chilean nearshore waters
Phytoplankton and particulate organic matter constitute the primary food source for adult filter-feeders, as well as for larval stages of many benthic and pelagic organisms. The structure and dynamics of nearshore benthic communities may be associated with variation in nearshore primary production. However, we know little about the scales of variability in phytoplankton in nearshore waters along open coasts, or about their causes. To characterize spatial and temporal patterns of chl a concentration, we conducted 2.5 yr of daily, shore-based monitoring at 3 sites separated by 10s of km within an upwelling region in central Chile. We found that: (1) peaks in chl a concentration were typically short-lived, persisting no longer than 4 d, (2) blooms occurred in spring to early summer months at all sites, but also during autumn months at 1 site (Las Cruces), and (3) the intensity and frequency of blooms were consistently different among sites; highest concentrations were at Las Cruces, lower at El Quisco, and the lowest at Quintay. Analyses of wind data and surface temperature, and inspection of Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) satellite images, suggested that among-site differences were due, at least in part, to alongshore variation in upwelling intensity and the formation of warm-water pockets or upwelling shadows in sections of the coast, such as Las Cruces. In contrast to the spatial pattern described offshore and over larger spatial scales, chl a concentrations were significantly lower at the coldest site, Quintay, located at the core of an upwelling center (Pta. Curaumilla), than at the warmer site of Las Cruces, which lies downstream from upwelling. Day-to-day variation in chl a levels during spring at Las Cruces seems related to the alongshore intrusion of waters upwelled upstream. Overall, the pattern observed at our 3 sites, together with previous studies at other upwelling systems, suggests that sections of the coast around 15 to 20 km downstream (equatorward) from upwelling centers could exhibit consistently higher phytoplankton concentrations than sites located in front of upwelling centers, generating a source-sink type of geographic pattern of nearshore nutrients and phytoplankton along the coast.

12/1275: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hfradarobservationsofsurfacecirculationoffbodegabaynortherncaliforniausa> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : HF radar observations of surface circulation off Bodega Bay (northern California, USA)
[1] Two high-frequency radar stations (CODAR) were installed along the northern California coast in May 2001. Comparisons of radar data with acoustic Doppler current profiler ( ADCP) current data and near-surface drifter tracks indicate considerable agreement, with minimum RMS differences of order 0.05 - 0.15 m/s and average drifter-HF-radar track separation rates of 5 +/- 3 km/d. Radar data resolve the three main sources of intraseasonal current variability in the area: ( 1) upwelling/relaxation dynamics, ( 2) tidal and diurnal forcing, and ( 3) inertial currents. Subtidal fluctuations are the largest component of variability, accounting for 45 - 75% of the variance. Wind-driven dynamics are the dominant source of this subtidal variability (67% of subtidal variability). Both upwelling and relaxation periods exhibit consistent patterns of surface velocity, with nearshore currents being slower and more poleward than offshore currents, which are strongly equatorward. Analysis of tidal and inertial variability indicate that current fluctuations are polarized toward clockwise rotation and are generally weaker and more linearly polarized near the coast. M-2 tidal current ellipses switch direction of rotation at the shelf break, suggesting the presence of internal tidal waves. Currents in all frequency bands are deflected and accelerated around Pt. Reyes, and there are indications of increased current variability and changes in flow direction near Cordell Bank. The presence of considerable cross-shore and alongshore gradients in the strength and direction of surface flow patterns, and in particular weak poleward currents over the inner shelf, could have important consequences for plankton retention in the area.

13/1276: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/gaoanenvironmentaldatabaseandsoftwaredesignedforfisheriesbiologists> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : GAO: an environmental database and software designed for fisheries biologists
This paper presents a software (GAO) processing oceanographic data for fisheries research.
GAO is built from large datasets covering the tropical Atlantic and Indian Oceans, some
records starting in the early years of the 20th century. Observations are restricted to the upper
500m of the ocean, which encompasses most of the habitat of tunas and other top predators of
the offshore pelagic ecosystem. The datasets include oceanographic stations (temperature,
salinity, dissolved oxygen, phosphates and nitrates at depth levels), vertical temperature
profiles (MBTs, XBTs, CTDs), outputs of the OPA ocean circulation model (temperature,
salinity, current vectors, vertical velocity, at 13 depth levels), sea surface temperature and
wind-derived fields, Topex sea level anomalies and soon, a temperature-at-depth database at
grid points on the global ocean. These datasets are prepared in a way enabling data storage
and processing on the local hard disk of a standard personal computer. A Windows® software
performs extraction and queries on these databases. The goal of GAO is to be an easy-tohandle
tool for working groups in the fisheries domain, where quick reference to physical
environment is sometimes required.

14/1277: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/largediurnaltemperaturefluctuationsinthenearshorewatercolumn> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Large diurnal temperature fluctuations in the nearshore water column
Large daily temperature fluctuations in the nearshore water column have been observed at several sites along the coast of central and northern Chile, particularly during summertime. These fluctuations are often on the order of the seasonal fluctuation in sea-surface temperature for the area and are capable, in certain locations, of penetrating deep (10-15 in) into the water column during the course of a single day. We explain this phenomenon by a combination of solar heating of the sea surface and wind-driven transport and accumulation of these warm, surface waters near shore. Measurements of surface heat flux agree roughly with observed daytime changes in the heat content of the nearshore water column. The strength of these diurnal fluctuations is shown to vary with the strength of coastal upwelling in the area. The potential consequences of this process for nearshore larval transport are unknown, but we briefly speculate about its importance. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.

15/1278: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/limitedmovementinbluerockfishsebastesmystinusinternalstructureofhomerange> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Limited movement in blue rockfish Sebastes mystinus: internal structure of home range
Home range has been estimated for a limited number of marine fishes; however, the use of space and timing of activities within the home range has rarely been studied. In addition, understanding movement patterns of exploited fish species has been identified as a crucial science gap, impeding informed marine reserve design. We used a radio-acoustic positioning telemetry (VRAP) system to monitor detailed movements of 10 blue rockfish Sebastes mystinus around shallow rock pinnacles and stands of bull kelp Nereocystis leutkeana in central California in September 2002, The mean home range was 8783 m(2) +/- 1137 SE; however, activity was highly concentrated in 1 to 3 core areas within each home range. Mean core areas measured 1350 m(2) 286 SE, but accounted for similar to 83 % of activity. All core areas were centered over rock pinnacles where rockfish were highly aggregated. Individuals exhibited high site fidelity and made only brief radial excursions away from these centers or moved directly from one pinnacle to the next along defined corridors. Patterns of diel activity and nocturnal sheltering corresponded closely with nautical twilight. Cores overlapped, but estimated locations of nocturnal shelters differed significantly among individuals. Movement patterns were correlated with wind velocity, upwelling index, water temperature and habitat structure.

16/1279: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/effectsofthegeardeploymentstrategyandcurrentshearonpelagiclonglineshoaling> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Effects of the gear deployment strategy and current shear on pelagic longline shoaling
Historical longline catch per unit effort (CPUE) constitutes the major time series used in tuna stock assessment to followthe trend in abundance since the beginning of the large-scale tuna fisheries. The efficiency and species composition of a longline fishing operations essentially depends on the overlap in the vertical and spatial distribution between hooks and species habitat. Longline catchability depends on the vertical distribution of hooks and the aim of our paper was to analyse principal factors affecting the deviation of observed longline hook depths from predicted values. Since observed hook depth is usually shallower than predicted, this deviation is called longline shoaling.We evaluate the accuracy of hook depth distribution estimated from a theoretical catenary model commonly used in longline CPUE standardizations. Temperature-depth recorders (TDRs) were deployed on baskets of a monitored longline. Mainline shapes and maximum fishing depths were similar to gear configurations commonly used to target both yellowfin and bigeye tuna by commercial longliners in the central part of the South Pacific Ocean. Our working hypothesis assumes that the maximum fishing depth reached by the mainline depends on the gear configuration (sag ratio, mainline length per basket), the fishing tactics (bearing of the setting) and environmental variables characterizing water mass dynamics (wind stress, current velocity and shear). Based on generalized additive models (GAMs) simple transformations are proposed to account for the non-linearity between the shoaling and explanatory variables. Then, generalized linear models (GLMs) were fit to model the effects of explanatory variables on the longline shoaling. Results indicated that the shoaling (absolute aswell as relative) was significantly influenced by (1) the shape of the mainline (i.e., the tangential angle), which is the strongest predictor, and (2) the current shear and the direction of setting. Geometric forcing (i.e. transverse versus in-line) between the environment and the longline set is shown for the first time from in situ experimental fishing data. Results suggest that a catenary model that does not take these factors into consideration provides a biased estimate of the vertical distribution of hooks and must be used with caution in CPUEs standardization methods. Since catchability varies in time and space we discuss how suitable data could be routinely collected onboard commercial fishing vessels in order to estimate longline catchability for stock assessments.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved..

17/1280: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/westanortherncaliforniastudyoftheroleofwinddriventransportintheproductivityofcoastalplanktoncommunities> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : WEST: A northern California study of the role of wind-driven transport in the productivity of coastal plankton communities
The ‶Wind Events and Shelf Transport'' (WEST) program was an interdisciplinary study of coastal upwelling off northern California in 2000-03. WEST was comprised of modeling and field observations. The primary goal of WEST was to better describe and understand the competing influences of wind forcing on planktonic productivity in coastal waters. While increased upwelling-favorable winds lead to increased nutrient supply, they also result in reduced light exposure due to deeper surface mixed layers and increased advective loss of plankton from coastal waters. The key to understanding high levels of productivity, amidst these competing responses to wind forcing, is the temporal and spatial structure of upwelling. Temporal fluctuations and spatial patterns allow strong upwelling that favors nutrient delivery to be juxtaposed with less energetic conditions that favor stratification and plankton blooms. Observations of winds, ocean circulation, nutrients, phytoplankton and zooplankton off Bodega Bay and Point Reyes (38 degrees N) were combined with model studies of winds, circulation and productivity. This overview of the WEST program provides an introduction to the WEST special issue of Deep-Sea Research, including the motivation for WEST, a summary of study components, an integrative synthesis of major research results to-date, and background on conditions during field studies in May-June 2001 (the upwelling period on which this special issue is focused). (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All. rights reserved.

18/1281: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hfradarderivedoriginanddestinationofsurfacewatersoffbodegabaycalifornia> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : HF radar-derived origin and destination of surface waters off Bodega Bay, California
As an integral part of the WEST study of the role of wind-driven transport in shelf productivity, HF radar currents are analyzed to determine typical surface flow patterns off Bodega Bay in northern California. Radar-derived surface trajectories and surface velocity divergences are used to determine the proximal origins and destinations of surface waters in the area. Surface trajectory results show a strong bimodality, with water over the entire shelf originating in the north under upwelling conditions and waters over the inner/mid-shelf originating in the south during relaxation conditions. Outer shelf waters have more variable transport patterns during relaxation conditions, with limited equatorward or onshore movements being most typical. The destinations of surface waters starting at the outer shelf are predominantly offshore, with the majority of particles exiting the radar domain west of Pt Reyes along the shelf edge in less than 2 days. Significant proportions of water from the inner/mid-shelf are exported southward and exit the radar domain inshore or within 20 km of the tip of Pt Reyes, creating possibilities for either nearshore retention in the Bodega region or entrainment of water into the Gulf of Farallons. Approximately 15% of all trajectories remained in the radar domain for 6 days, suggesting that a biologically significant percentage of larvae might be retained in the area for time periods approaching typical larval durations. Calculations of surface divergence indicate where vertical flux may be significant. An extensive area of positive divergence is observed off Bodega during upwelling conditions, while weakly convergent flow is observed where upwelling flows approach Pt Reyes. Positive divergence also is observed during relaxation periods when poleward flow separates from the shore just north of Pt Reyes. Estimates of vertical flux in these divergence zones point to a significant contribution of recently upwelled waters to the observed horizontal fluxes at the surface. Determination of the ultimate source and fate of phytoplankton-rich waters requires further analysis of the detailed time dependence of phytoplankton concentration relative to the time dependence of wind-forced currents. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.



1253) Recherche du mot : Current (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/current)
1/1282: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/roleofpredationbyharpsealspagophilusgroenlandicusinthecollapseandnonrecoveryofnortherngulfofstlawrencecodgadusmorhua> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Role of predation by harp seals Pagophilus groenlandicus in the collapse and non-recovery of northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod Gadus morhua
A statistical catch-at-age model was developed to assess the effects of predation by the northwest Atlantic harp seal population on northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod by estimating the relative importance of different sources of mortality that affected the stock during a period of collapse and non-recovery. Cod recruitment at age 1 is modeled via a non-linear stock-recruitment relationship based on total egg production and accounts for changes in female length-at-maturity and cod condition. Natural mortality other than seal predation also depends on cod condition used as an integrative index of changes in environmental conditions. The linkage between seals and cod is modeled through a multi-age functional response that was derived from the reconstruction of the seal diet using morphometric relationships and stomach contents of more than 200 seals collected between 1998 and 2001. The model was fitted following a maximum likelihood estimation approach to a scientific survey abundance index (1984 to 2006). Model results show that the collapse of the northern Gulf of St. Lawrence cod stock was mainly due to the combination of high fishing mortality rates and poor environmental conditions in the early to mid-1990s contributing to the current state of recruitment overfishing. The increase in harp seal abundance during 1984 to 2006 was reflected by an increase in predation mortality for the young cod age-groups targeted by seals. Although current levels of predation mortality affect cod spawning biomass, the lack of recovery of the NGSL cod stock seems mainly due to the very poor recruitment.

2/1283: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/roleofpelagiccrustaceansinthedietofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxintheseychelleswaters> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) in the Seychelles waters
The role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox was investigated from stomach content analysis of fish collected in the waters surrounding the Seychelles Archipelago in the western Indian Ocean. Crustaceans accounted for 88.4% by prey number and 73.7% by reconstituted mass during the South-West monsoon season. During the North-East monsoon season, crustaceans remained the main prey group and accounted for 63.7% by prey number and 46% by reconstituted mass. There was a clear seasonal pattern with the portunid crab Charybdis smithii predominating during the South-West monsoon season and the pelagic stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris during the North-East monsoon season. This pattern likely reflects variations in prey availability linked to current movements around the Seychelles Archipelago. Most of the prey consisted of slow-swimming and small individuals, which occur in dense swarms during the pelagic phase of their life history. The dietary trends of lancetfish are consistent with opportunistic feeding on the most abundant prey. They exploit short food chains based on carnivorous crustaceans, and play an important role in the pelagic trophic functioning of the western Indian Ocean.

3/1284: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofplanktonwithreferencetofishvariabilityinthebenguelacurrentlargemarineecosystemanoverview> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Variability of plankton with reference to fish variability in the benguela current Large Marine Ecosystem – An Overview.


4/1285: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bioeconomicmodellingofthemauritanianoctopusfishery> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Bio-economic modelling of the Mauritanian octopus fishery
A bio-economic model of the Mauritanian octopus fishery has been developed. The biological basis of
the model is an adaptation of an existing analytical model, i.e. a production model designed explicitly for
octopus biology and the observed exploitation pattern (age-based model, computed on one monthly step,
etc). In the current version of the model, both the biological and economic components of the model have
been designed to reflect the fleet structure, with one small-scale and three industrial fleet segments. The
economic component of the model is based on the prices received by, and the operating (opportunity) costs
of, each segment. When coupled with the biological component, this allows an estimation of resource rents
per segment associated with different exploitation levels and fleet structures. Within the context of a new
management plan for the Mauritanian octopus fishery, the model enables an overall assessment of the
management system to be made, and can simulate the likely impact of a range of management measures.

5/1286: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multispeciesassessmentoftunascaughtinthetropicalatlanticpurseseinefisherysensitivityofproductionmodelstobiasesinreportedcatches> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Multi-species assessment of tunas caught in the Tropical Atlantic purse Seine fishery: sensitivity of production models to biases in reported catches
In this document, different scenarios of uncertainties in a multispecies fishery are presented. Uncertainties have been considered in the estimation of the species composition of the tropical tuna catch as well as in the total catch. Although three species (yellofin, skipjack and bigeye) are involved in the tropical tuna fishery, only uncertainties in the bigeye vs skipjack have been taken into account, in order to simplify the analysis. Regarding the total catch, bigeye has been considered as the species with higher uncertainty due to the IUU catch component. Analyses have been focused in evaluating the sensitivity of the current assessment methods to these uncertainties. Taking into account that the two sources of uncertainty affect the age structure of the catch as well as the total catch, surplus production methods have been applied in the assessment.

6/1287: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/determinismandplasticityoffishschoolingbehaviourasexemplifiedbythesouthpacificjackmackereltrachurusmurphyi> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Determinism and plasticity of fish schooling behaviour as exemplified by the South Pacific jack mackerel (Trachurus murphyi)
Pelagic fish schools are thought to show a general pattern of dispersion at night and aggregation within schools during the day. This pattern is often accepted as the major rule driving most of the other physiological, biological and ecological processes. Foraging on mobile prey, for instance, is assumed to be enhanced by schooling behaviour. Current theory assumes then that foraging is only possible for obligatory gregarious predatory fish from dawn to dusk. However, offshore mesopelagic communities perform vertical migrations and are out of reach for most oceanic pelagic predators during the day (with the exception of some apex predators, e.g. swordfish or big-eye tuna). To investigate how fish may overcome this apparent contradiction, we studied the 3-dimensional spatial strategy of the South Pacific jack mackerel Trachurus murphyi according to the abiotic and biotic conditions of the habitat. Data came from acoustic surveys performed in central Chile in 1997, 1998 and 1999. Our results show that the jack mackerel distribution was driven by prey during the night when foraging, and related to the hydrology when resting during the day in the upper part of the oxycline. Fish were more aggregated at night than during the day, probably because jack mackerel cycles of schooling behaviour depend primarily on prey availability. This 'atypical' behaviour could be an adaptation of gregarious pelagic fish to an oceanic ecosystem. Fish schooling behaviour is not necessarily driven directly by the diel cycle; rather, it can be functional and depends on prey availability.

7/1288: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitytheoryforecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Viability theory for ecosystem approach to fisheries
Maintenance of overall ecosystem complexity is perceived as critical to the sustainability of ecosystem use. The development of an operational basis for an ecosystem approach to fisheries, however, faces many difficulties. On the research side, the challenge is in defining proper long-term, ecosystem-related objectives; determining meaningful reference values and indicators for desirable or undesirable states of the ecosystem; and developing appropriate data collection, analytical tools and models. The "viability" concept developed in economics by Jean-Pierre Aubin can be used to assist in the definition, selection of, and interaction among long-term objectives at an ecosystem level. It recognizes that ecosystems are complex assemblages of interacting and self-organizing natural and human components that cannot be predicted. Viability models define an ensemble of "viable states", in contrast to undesirable states defined as such by ecological, economic, and/or social constraints. These constraints can be derived from fisheries objectives, conservation principles, scientific results of modelling, or precautionary principles, and correspond to limit reference points to be avoided. Viability theory does not attempt to choose any "optimal solution" according to given criteria, but selects "viable evolutions". These evolutions are compatible with the constraints in the sense that they satisfy them at each time and can be delineated by the viability kernel. The southern Benguela marine ecosystem is presented as a first attempt for the application of this theory. In defining ecosystem-based objectives (and related issues such as target reference points), it seems more difficult to reach consensus among stakeholders on what is desirable than on what is undesirable (e.g. biological or economic collapse, species extinction, displacement of local rural communities). Expressed in the negative form or as limit reference points, ecosystem-based constraints can be considered simultaneously with current target reference points, such as maximum sustainable yield, using viability models. The viability approach can help to progressively integrate ecosystem considerations, such as conservation, into fisheries management.

8/1289: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/patternsofvariabilityofseasurfacechlorophyllinthemozambiquechannelaquantitativeapproach> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Patterns of variability of sea surface chlorophyll in the Mozambique Channel:A quantitative approach
We analyse the coupling between sea surface chlorophyll concentration (CC) and the physical environment in the Mozambique Channel (MZC) using statistical models. Seasonal and interannual patterns are studied along with the role of mesoscale dynamics on enhancement and concentration processes for phytoplankton. We use SeaWifs data for CC and two other remotely sensed data sets, TMMI for sea surface temperature (SST) and merged altimetry products for sea level anomaly and geostrophic current. Empirical Orthogonal Functions (EOF) on SSC and SST show strong seasonality and partition the MZC into three distinct sub-areas. The chlorophyll variability is mostly driven by seasonality, but more in the North (10°S–16°S) and South (24°S–30°S), and explains respectively 64% and 82% of the CC variance. In the Central part (16°S–24°S), the seasonal signal has less influence (60% variance). There, complex EOFs on Sea Level Anomaly (SLA) highlight the role of mesoscale activity (i.e. eddies and filament structures) in the spatial distribution of chlorophyll. Five mesoscale descriptors (shear, stretch, vorticity, deformation and eddy kinetic energy) are derived from the altimetry data to quantify the eddies-related physical patterns in the central region of the MZC. We use generalized Additive Models to explain the effect of those features on phytoplankton enhancement. The best model fit (r2=0.73) includes shear, stretch, vorticity and the latitude-longitude interaction as eddies are well structured in space. Cyclonic eddies associated with negative vorticity are conductive to phytoplankton enhancement by the effect of upwelling in the core notably during the spin-up phase. The interaction between eddies generate strong frontal mixing favourable to the production and aggregation of organic matter. The mesoscale activity is also affected by interannual variability with consequences on CC. We highlight a substantial reduction of the SLA pattern in 2000–2001 when the SOI positive phase is peaking (Nina-type pattern). The strong relationship between mesoscale eddies and SOI suggests that primary productivity in the MZC is also under the influence of distant forcing at a basin scale.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

9/1290: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingandcomparingthespawninghabitatsofanchovyengraulisencrasicolusandsardinesardinopssagaxinthesouthernbenguelaupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Characterizing and comparing the spawning habitats of anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem
The spawning habitats of anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus and sardine Sardinops sagax in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem were characterised by comparing their egg abundances with environmental variables measured concomitantly during two different survey programmes: the South African Sardine and Anchovy Recruitment Programme (SARP), which comprised monthly surveys conducted during the austral summers of 1993/94 and 1994/95; and annual pelagic spawner biomass surveys conducted in early summer (November/December) from 1984 to 1999. Eggs were collected using a CalVET net. Physical variables measured included sea surface temperature (SST), surface salinity, water depth, mixed-layer depth, and current and wind speeds; biological variables measured included phytoplankton biomass, and zooplankton biomass and production. Spawning habitat was identified by construction of quotient curves derived from egg abundance data and individual environmental variables, and relationships between these variables were determined using multivariate co-inertia analysis. SARP data showed that anchovy spawning was associated with cool water and moderate wind and current speeds, whereas sardine spawning was related to warmer water and more turbulent and unstable conditions (i.e. high wind speeds and strong currents) than for anchovy. SARP data also showed significant differences in selection of spawning habitat of the two species for all environmental variables. The relationship between anchovy egg abundance and salinity was strongly positive, but strongly negative with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. Sardine egg abundance was strongly positively related to current speed. The spawner biomass survey data demonstrated that the spawning habitat of anchovy was characterised by warm water and high salinity, whereas sardine spawning was associated with cool water and low salinity. The survey data showed significant differences in spawning habitat selection by anchovy and sardine for SST, salinity and zooplankton biomass, but not for the other environmental variables. There was a positive relationship between anchovy egg abundance and SST, salinity and mixed-layer depth, and a negative relationship with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. For sardine there was a strong positive relationship between egg abundance and current speed and wind speed. Differences in the results between the two survey programmes could be attributable to differences in their spatio-temporal coverage. Spawning habitats of anchovy and sardine appear to be substantially different, with anchovy being more specific than sardine in their preference of various environmental conditions.

10/1291: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/decadalenvironmentalandecologicalchangesinthecanarycurrentlargemarineecosystemandadjacentwaterspatternsofconnectionsandteleconnection> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Decadal environmental and ecological changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem and adjacent waters : Patterns of connections and teleconnection
In order to explore decadal changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem (LME), wind and SST data collected by merchant ships are extracted from the Comprehensive Ocean Atmosphere Data Set (COADS) database from 1950 to 1995 within sixteen boxes along the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from 10°N up to 43°N.  Potential biases are reviewed and discussed when considering long-term changes and large spatial resolution. The heterogeneity of the seasonal patterns in the Canary current is described.  Decadal environmental changes are explored using Sea Surface Temperature (SST) data.  In the early and mid-1970s, an intensive cooling had a large latitudinal extension that affected the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from Spain to Senegal.  This cooling period was followed by a warming period, which started in the 1980s. Fisheries, fish stock abundance as well as fish population distributions have drastically changed during the last five decades. The sardine populations off Morocco widely fluctuated in a disconnected manner and a substantial increase in biomass was observed in fishing zone C (located between 20°N and 27°N) during the mid-1970s and mid-1980s. Several outbursts of fish populations (Micromesistius poutassou, Macrorhamphosus scolopax and M. gracilis, Octopus vulgaris, Balistes carolinensis) were observed during the last three decades in the Canary Current. In the case of the latter species it was connected with the outburst populations which took place in the Gulf of Guinea LME.  Upwelling intensity and sea surface temperature are strongly linked and are thought to affect both spatial distribution and abundance of fish in the Canary Current LME.  Ecosystems appear to be connected at very large scales through climatic teleconnection between the Northern and Central Atlantic but also between the Pacific and the Atlantic as the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index and the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events seem to have a major impact on the dynamics of the upwelling in the Canary Current.

11/1292: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/zooplanktonandforagefishspeciesoffperulargescalebottomupforcingandlocalscaledepletion> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Zooplankton and forage fish species off Peru: large-scale bottom-up forcing and local-scale depletion
The Humboldt Current System, like all upwelling systems, has dramatic quantities of plankton-feeding fish, which suggested that their population dynamics may ‘drive' or ‘control' ecosystem dynamics. With this in mind we analysed the relationship between forage fish populations and their main prey, zooplankton populations. Our study combined a zooplankton sampling program (1961–2005) with simultaneous acoustic observations on fish from 40 pelagic surveys (1983–2005) conducted by the Peruvian Marine Research Institute (IMARPE) and landing statistics for anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) along the Peruvian coast from 1961 to 2005. The multi-year trend of anchoveta population abundance varied consistently with zooplankton biovolume trend, suggesting bottom-up control on anchovy at the population scale (since oceanographic conditions and phytoplankton production support the changes in zooplankton abundance). For a finer-scale analysis (km) we statistically modelled zooplankton biovolume as a function of geographical (latitude and distance from the 200-m isobath), environmental (sea surface temperature), temporal (year, month and time-of-day) and biological (acoustic anchovy and sardine biomass within 5 km of each zooplankton sample) covariates over all survey using both classification and regression trees (CART) and generalized additive models (GAM). CART showed local anchoveta density to have the strongest effect on zooplankton biovolume, with significantly reduced levels of biovolume for higher neighbourhood anchoveta biomass. Additionally, zooplankton biovolume was higher offshore than on the shelf. GAM results corroborated the CART findings, also showing a clear diel effect on zooplankton biovolume, probably due to diel migration or daytime net avoidance. Apparently, the observed multi-year population scale bottom-up control is not inconsistent with local depletion of zooplankton when anchoveta are locally abundant, since the latter effect was observed over a wide range of overall anchoveta abundance.

12/1293: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingtheprimaryandsecondaryproductionsofthesouthernbenguelaupwellingsystemacomparativestudythroughtwobiogeochemicalmodelsglobalbiogeochem> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Modeling the primary and secondary productions of the southern Benguela upwelling system: A comparative study through two biogeochemical models, Global Biogeochem
A three-dimensional primitive equation model, the Regional Ocean Modeling Systems (ROMS), coupled to two biogeochemical configurations (NPZD and N2P2Z2D2) was used to study the dynamics of the first trophic levels of the pelagic food web in the southern Benguela upwelling system. The domain extends from the Agulhas Bank bordered by the Agulhas Current to 27°S on the west coast of South Africa. The circulation is driven by monthly climatologies of atmospheric forcing fields. The NPZD ecosystem model consists of four state variables: nutrient (nitrate), phytoplankton, zooplankton and detritus. In the N2P2Z2D2 model, ammonium has been added and the three other variables have been divided into small and large organisms or detritus. Both models are able to reproduce the spatio-temporal phytoplankton distribution. Along the west coast, chlorophyll concentrations maxima are associated to surface waters. Westward dominating winds generate the lowest chlorophyll concentrations encountered in winter. The small phytoplankton organisms simulated by the N2P2Z2D2 model are responsible for a weaker chlorophyll inshore/offshore gradient, in closer agreement with observations. Transitions from a regime dominated by new production (high f ratio) to one dominated by regenerated production (low f ratio) happen to be abrupt, underlying the constant competition between small and large organisms with regard to upwelling induced nutrient inputs. On the Agulhas Bank, the summer enrichment is associated with subsurface maxima, while in winter, mixing by storms results in a homogeneous phytoplankton distribution in the water column. Regenerated production plays an important role in maintaining the total phytoplankton growth. Zooplankton biomass reflects the overall patterns of chlorophyll a concentrations with differences between the west coast and the Agulhas Bank, consistent with data, and its distribution exhibits a clear seasonal contrast. The seasonality of small and large zooplankton in the N2P2Z2D2 model is quite distinct, which allows, from the Agulhas Bank to St. Helena Bay, a food continuum for fish larvae. This was not achieved with the simpler NPZD model, emphasizing the importance of representing the appropriate level of complexity to characterize food availability for higher trophic levels.

13/1294: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/topmarinepredatorstracklagrangiancoherentstructures> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Top marine predators track Lagrangian coherent structures
Meso- and submesoscales (fronts, eddies, filaments) in surface ocean flow have a crucial influence on marine ecosystems. Their dynamics partly control the foraging behavior and the displacement of marine top predators (tuna, birds, turtles, and cetaceans). In this work we focus on the role of submesoscale structures in the Mozambique Channel in the distribution of a marine predator, the Great Frigatebird. Using a newly developed dynamic concept, the finite-size Lyapunov exponent (FSLE), we identified Lagrangian coherent structures (LCSs) present in the surface flow in the channel over a 2-month observation period (August and September 2003). By comparing seabird satellite positions with LCS locations, we demonstrate that frigatebirds track precisely these structures in the Mozambique Channel, providing the first evidence that a top predator is able to track these FSLE ridges to locate food patches. After comparing bird positions during long and short trips and different parts of these trips, we propose several hypotheses to understand how frigatebirds can follow these LCSs. The birds might use visual and/or olfactory cues and/or atmospheric current changes over the structures to move along these biologic corridors. The birds being often associated with tuna schools around foraging areas, a thorough comprehension of their foraging behavior and movement during the breeding season is crucial not only to seabird ecology but also to an appropriate ecosystemic approach to fisheries in the channel.

14/1295: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anchovyengraulisringensandsardinesardinopssagaxspatialdynamicsandaggregationpatternsinthehumboldtcurrentecosystemperufrom> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Anchovy (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) spatial dynamics and aggregation patterns in the Humboldt Current ecosystem, Peru, from 1983-2003
Three indexes of spatial aggregation are developed and used to examine the aggregation pattern of sardine (Sardinops sagax) and anchovy (Engraulis ringens) in the Peruvian Humboldt Current System, determined from 36 acoustic surveys conducted from 1983 through 2003 by the Peruvian Marine Institute (IMARPE). Each index assesses a different aspect of aggregation: the concentration, the percent occupancy of space and the clustering of high-fish abundance. Both time-series correlation and tree-based clustering-regression method, classification and regression trees (CART), were used to relate each of the indexes to environmental variables (season, temperature anomaly and year). Additionally, a measure of onshore-offshore distribution, the average distance from the coast, and abundance variables (the average acoustic backscatter per occupied sampling unit, and the acoustically estimated total abundance of sardine and anchovy from IMARPE) were related to environmental factors by using CART. We show that the 1983-2003 time series can be divided into three different periods: with shifts in 1992 and in 1997-98. Sardine and anchovy showed large differences in both abundance and aggregation among these periods. Although upwelling ecosystems support dramatic and sudden changes in environmental conditions, fish responses are sometimes smoother than usually suggested and there are transition periods with concomitant high biomasses of anchovy and sardine, but with different spatial aggregation patterns. Observed relationships between environmental proxies and aggregation patterns support the habitat-based hypothesis that environmentally mediated alterations in range lead to population changes.

15/1296: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/areviewofanalyticalapproachestoinvestigateseabirdenvironmentinteractions> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : A review of analytical approaches to investigate seabird-environment interactions
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution, and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In this paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour, and their environment in order to assess current trends, weaknesses, and future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated; and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where in most cases no behavioral information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. A vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird-environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, meso-scale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modeling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multi-scale, and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

16/1297: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anindividualbasedmodelstudyofanchovyearlylifehistoryinthenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystem> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : An individual-based model study of anchovy early life history in the northern Humboldt Current system
We used an individual-based model of anchovy (Engraulis ringens) early life history coupled with hydrodynamic outputs from the regional oceanic modeling system (ROMS) to investigate the factors driving variability in egg and larval survival rates in the northern Humboldt upwelling region off Peru. Individuals were released within a coastal area and followed for a period of 30 days. Those that were still in the coastal area at that time were considered as retained. We investigated the spatial and temporal variability in the release locations of the individuals retained, and compared these to observed egg concentration patterns reconstructed from a 40-year period of monitoring. A first set of simulations using passive particles to represent anchovy eggs and larvae revealed a large sensitivity of the results to the initial vertical distribution of particles. We then conducted two additional sets of simulations that included the effect of egg buoyancy, larval vertical swimming behavior and lethal temperature. We obtained (1) maximal coastal retention close to the surface in winter and in deeper layers in summer, (2) a large influence of egg buoyancy and of larval vertical behavior on coastal retention in all seasons, (3) a partial match between dates and locations of enhanced retention and observed egg concentration patterns and (4) a low effect of lethal temperature on survival except when associated with high egg density. The model suggests that an optimal temporal spawning pattern for maximizing coastal retention would have two maximums, the most significant in austral winter and the second in summer. This pattern agrees roughly with observed spawning seasonality, but with temporal discrepancy of about two months in the peaks of both series. Spatially, we obtained higher retention from 10 S to 20 S, whereas the observed maximum egg concentration was located between 6°S and 14°S. Among the three sets of simulations, the one taking into account larval vertical swimming behavior lead to the best match with the data.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

17/1298: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/synchronouspatternoffluctuationinthreeanchovyfisheriesinthehumboldtcurrentsystem> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Synchronous pattern of fluctuation in three anchovy fisheries in the Humboldt Current System
Interdecadal versus interannual time-scale variations of catch data of three anchovy fisheries distributed in the Humboldt Current System (HCS) were analyzed during the period 1960-2002, by using first a loess smoother. The loess residual data were considered as the interannual variation. Interdecadal changes were highly coherent for the three fisheries of anchovy distributed in the HCS, while there were differences in terms of interannual variations. The north-central Peru fishery was similar to the south Peru-northern Chile fishery in terms of the interannual component of fluctuation of these fisheries which was significantly and negatively related with El Niño-Southern Oscillations events occurring during the spring of the previous year. Interdecadal synchronous variations in the three anchovy fisheries suggest a common forcing by long-term environmental factors in the HCS, although other causes cannot be excluded. During the last 40 years, coherent changes in anchovy fisheries were observed, and this synchronous pattern is out of phase with large-amplitude sardine regimes. Long-term climate variability seems to be the main cause for interdecadal fluctuations in anchovy fisheries in the HCS, although available time series are too short to prove this link and exclude the hypothesis of nonenvironmental forcing. Large-amplitude regime shifts may be more important to consider than interannual changes since they can affect simultaneously and more dramatically the three anchovy fisheries distributed in the Humboldt Current System.

18/1299: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicstructureoftheperuvianmarineecosystemininsightsontheeffectsofmanagementscenariosforthehakefisheryusingtheibmtrophicmodelosmose> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Trophic structure of the Peruvian marine ecosystem in 2000-2006 : insights on the effects of management scenarios for the hake fishery using the IBM trophic model Osmose
The individual-based trophic model Osmose is applied to the upwelling marine ecosystem off
the coast of Peru. The dynamics and life cycle of eight major species of the Peruvian marine
ecosystem are explicitly considered in the model. Reference simulations provide an overview of
the trophic structure of the Peruvian ecosystem during the period 2000–2006. Results of model
calibration and simulations are discussed in the light of current empirical knowledge on the
trophic functioning of the Peruvian ecosystem and are compared to outputs obtained recently
using the trophic model Ecopath.
The impacts on the ecosystem of restoration plans for the depleted hake (Merluccius gayi
peruanus) population are explored through two management scenarios: a) a long term
reduction of fishing effort targeting hake and b) a moratorium on the hake fishery. The
simulations help better understand the recent failure of a 20 month hake moratorium and
provide long-term strategic support to ecosystem-based management. Limits of our approach
are discussed and recommendations are detailed for future developments of the Osmose model
and ecosystem approach to fishery management in the Peruvian context.

19/1300: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/surfacecurrentsduringanomalousupwellingseasonsoffcentralcalifornia> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Surface currents during anomalous upwelling seasons off central California
An extensive spatio-temporal surface currents dataset from central California, USA is
used to examine in detail two extreme years in the California Current. 2006 is
characterized by an extended period of calm winds during the critical early months of the
upwelling season (April, May). This lead to little or no upwelling over this period,
essentially delaying the onset of the upwelling season. 2007 is characterized by
extremely strong alongshore wind stress during the first quarter of the year and during the
early part of the upwelling season. This produced monthly-mean alongshore current
velocities over the mid-shelf for April 2007 in excess of 0.7 m s-1, which has not been
previously observed in this region for periods of more than a few days since the
installation of the HF radar instruments in 2001. Both of these extremes appear to have
had important consequences for the coastal ecosystem that have been documented
elsewhere, including the collapse of parts of the trophic web (2006) and the presence of
large quantities of water of deep origin over the continental shelf (2007). Understanding
and describing circulation and transport patterns during these extremes is important in
light of predictions from global climate change, which may cause these extreme
conditions to occur more frequently.

20/1301: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingforecastingandscenariosincomparableupwellingecosystemscaliforniacanaryandhumboldt> : SCORE = 0.53187644
Doc : Modelling, forecasting and scenarios in comparable upwelling ecosystems: California, Canary and Humboldt
The three eastern boundary ecosystems comparable to the Benguela ecosystem (BCE)
display differences and commonalities. The California (CalCE) and Humboldt Current
(HCE) ecosystems are continuous topographically, whereas the Canary Current
ecosystem (CanCE) is interrupted by the Gulf of Cadiz and the Canaries archipelago.
All have similar regimes of equatorward flow over shelf and slope associated with
upwelling and a subsurface poleward flow over the slope, though in the HCE multiple
flows and counter-flows appear offshore. All systems exhibit year round upwelling in
their centre and seasonal upwelling at their extremes as the trade wind systems that
drive them migrate north and south, though the HCE is strongly skewed toward the
equator. All systems vary on scales from the event or synoptic scale of a few days,
through seasonal, to inter-decadal and long term. Productivity of each system follows
the upwelling cycle, though intra-regional variations in nutrient content and forcing
cause significant variability within regions. The CanCE is relatively unproductive
compared to the CalCE and HCE as a result of differences in large scale circulation
between the Pacific and Atlantic. The latter two systems are dominated by El Niño -
Southern Oscillation (ENSO) variability on a scale of 4-7 years. Physical modeling
with the Princeton Ocean Model and the Regional Oceanic Modeling System has
advanced recently to the stage of reproducing realistic mesoscale features and energy
levels with climatic wind forcing. Operational forecasting by these models with
assimilation of sea surface temperature and other data is successfully implemented in
CalCE. On longer time scales, the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory model is able
to hindcast El Niño variability over the long term up to 2 years in advance. Empirical
ecological models in all three systems have attempted prediction of permissible catch
level (fractional Maximum Sustainable Yield), recruitment, catches or onset of
migration with lack of continued success, partly because discontinuous or inadequate
observations hamper model implementation and assessment. Moreover, empirical
models tuned to particular environments fail when fundamental regime shifts occur.
One of the most successful approaches is that of intensive monitoring of catch and
188 P. Fréon
environmental parameters linked to an informal Operational Management Procedure
(OMP) to inform fisheries management off Peru. This OMP contributed to
preservation of anchovy stock during the 1997-8 El Niño but remains to be formalized
or tested under varying conditions. Prediction on time scales of global warming are
uncertain because physical climate models still disagree on whether upwelling will
intensify or weaken. Possible scenarios on decadal scale based on warming or cooling
of waters in the Eastern Boundary Current systems can be proffered, albeit with little
confidence at present. Future approaches for all systems, including the BCE, will in
the long run likely combine coupled atmospheric/ocean models with biological process
models. Judicious application of purely statistical modeling based on inherent time
series properties will assist, though such techniques are unable to cope with regime
shifts.

21/1302: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingsardineandanchovyichthyoplanktontransportinthecanarycurrentsystem> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Modelling sardine and anchovy ichthyoplankton transport in the Canary Current System
The Canary Current System, centred along the north-western coast of Africa, is one of the four major eastern boundary currents of the world ocean. It sustains a large amount of small pelagic fish, mainly sardine (Sardina pilchardus; Sardinella spp.) and anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus). One of the particularities of this system is the presence of the Canary archipelago, which is close enough to the continental coast to allow exchange of biological material between the two areas. We use intermediate-resolution (7 km) hydrodynamic simulations as inputs for an individual-based model to assess the transport of ichthyoplankton (i) along the African coast and (ii) from the African coast to the Canary archipelago. We explored different scenarios of passive versus active vertically swimming larvae to assess the possible impact of vertical migration on transport and retention. Transport along the coast was essentially southward. The zone located between Cape Draa and Cape Juby had relatively high levels of retention in autumn and winter. The zone extending from Cape Boujdor up to Cape Blanc had high retention levels during the entire year. Larvae transported from the coast to the archipelago came mainly from the area located between Cape Ghir and Cape Juby, whereas larvae retained in the eddy field downstream of the islands originated mainly from the area between Cape Juby to Dakhla. The results are discussed in relation to available field data of anchovy and sardine egg distributions over the continental shelf, and compared with oceanic surveys of larval presence near the Canary archipelago.

22/1303: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactsofkelvinwaveforcingintheperuhumboldtcurrentsystemscenariosofspatialreorganizationsfromphysicstofishers> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Impacts of Kelvin wave forcing in the Peru Humboldt Current system: Scenarios of spatial reorganizations from physics to fishers
Because climate change challenges the sustainability of important fish populations and the fisheries they support, we need to understand how large scale climatic forcing affects the functioning of marine ecosystems. In the Humboldt Current system (HCS), a main driver of climatic variability is coastally-trapped Kelvin waves (KWs), themselves originating as oceanic equatorial KWs. Here we (i) describe the spatial reorganizations of living organisms in the Humboldt coastal system as affected by oceanic KWs forcing, (ii) quantify the strength of the interactions between the physical and biological component dynamics of the system, (iii) formulate hypotheses on the processes which drive the redistributions of the organisms, and (iv) build scenarios of space occupation in the HCS under varying KW forcing. To address these questions we explore, through bivariate lagged correlations and multivariate statistics, the relationships between time series of oceanic KW amplitude (TAO mooring data and model-resolved baroclinic modes) and coastal Peruvian oceanographic data (SST, coastal upwelled waters extent), anchoveta spatial distribution (mean distance to the coast, spatial concentration of the biomass, mean depth of the schools), and fishing fleet statistics (trip duration, searching duration, number of fishing sets and catch per trip, features of the foraging trajectory as observed by satellite vessel monitoring system). Data sets span all or part of January 1983 to September 2006. The results show that the effects of oceanic KW forcing are significant in all the components of the coastal ecosystem, from oceanography to the behaviour of the top predators – fishers. This result provides evidence for a bottom-up transfer of the behaviours and spatial stucturing through the ecosystem. We propose that contrasting scenarios develop during the passage of upwelling versus downwelling KWs. From a predictive point of view, we show that KW amplitudes observed in the mid-Pacific can be used to forecast which system state will dominate the HCS over the next 2–6 months. Such predictions should be integrated in the Peruvian adaptive fishery management.

23/1304: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/dietofsardinesardinopssagaxinthenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystemandcomparisonwiththedietsofclupeoidsinthisandothereasternboundaryupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 0.91553277
Doc : Diet of sardine (Sardinops sagax) in the northern Humboldt Current system and comparison with the diets of clupeoids in this and other eastern boundary upwelling systems
Sardines are one of the main small pelagic fish resources in eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUS) where they play an important ecological role both as a predator of plankton and as prey of top predators. Sardine trophodynamics have been relatively well studied in three of the EBUS (the Benguela, California and Canary upwelling systems) but not in the Humboldt Current system. In this paper we describe the diet of sardine Sardinops sagax in the northern Humboldt Current system (NHCS) off Peru, using an analytical method which assesses relative dietary importance in terms of estimated prey carbon content. We assessed sardine diet by examining a total of 555 stomachs collected during six surveys conducted off Peru during the period 1996–1998, and compare our results with the diet of anchoveta Engraulis ringens off Peru and with the diets of sardines from the southern Benguela (also S. sagax) and the northern Canary (Sardina pilchardus) upwelling systems. The diet of sardine off Peru is based primarily on zooplankton, similar to that observed for anchoveta but with several important differences. Firstly, sardine feed on smaller zooplankton than do anchoveta, with sardine diet consisting of smaller copepods and fewer euphausiids than anchoveta diet. Secondly, whilst phytoplankton represents <2% of sardine dietary carbon, this fraction is dominated by dinoflagellates, whereas diatoms are the dominant phytoplankton consumed by anchoveta. Hence, trophic competition between sardine and anchovy in the northern Humboldt Current system is minimized by their partitioning of the zooplankton food resource based on prey size, as has been reported in other systems. Whereas sardine in the NHCS feed on smaller zooplankton than do anchovy in that system, sardine in the NHCS forage on larger prey and obtain a substantial portion of their dietary carbon from euphausiids compared to sardine from the northern Canary and southern Benguela Current systems.

24/1305: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialinterpolationandfilteringofsurfacecurrentdatabasedonopenboundarymodalanalysis> : SCORE = 0.91553277
Doc : Spatial interpolation and filtering of surface current data based on open-boundary modal analysis
[1] The use of high-frequency (HF) radar surface current measurements are limited by spatial coverage gaps and sparse sampling. The normal mode (NMA) and open-boundary mode (OMA) current decomposition techniques developed by Lipphardt et al. (2000) and Lekien et al. (2004), respectively, produce smooth two-dimensional current fields by fitting data to a set of spatial modes. These methods have the advantages of incorporating the coastal boundary condition and providing a controllable level of spatial smoothing. While computation of and fitting to modes has been previously examined, variations and limitations of the technique have not been fully explored. Here we expand on the original OMA algorithm to incorporate radial currents produced by individual HF radars. Assimilating radial measurements maximizes use of available data and avoids the additional step and error of creating vector currents from radial data. We also develop techniques for dealing with spatially nonuniform data distributions and data gaps. Estimates of measurement error are propagated to evaluate the uncertainty of interpolated current fields. We illustrate our findings and assess the robustness of the OMA technique for calculating currents, divergences, and vorticities using HF radar data from Bodega Bay and Monterey Bay, California. Though care must be taken when using the technique as occasional shortage of data (e.g., temporary failure of a radar station) can produce erroneous fitted currents, OMA provides a robust mechanism for interpolating and filtering two-dimensional velocity measurements. Furthermore, OMA-derived errors provide a transparent and useful estimate of spatial patterns of uncertainty.

25/1306: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/therelationshipofanchovyandsardinetowatermassesintheperuvianhumboldtcurrentsystemfromto> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : The relationship of anchovy and sardine to water masses in the Peruvian Humboldt Current System from 1983 to 2005
The Humboldt Current System (HCS) is dominated by two pelagic species; Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax). Using data from 43 acoustic surveys conducted from 1983 through 2005 by the Peruvian Marine Institute (IMARPE), we examined the distribution of these two species relative to water masses. We tested the hypothesis that anchovy was found more frequently in upwelled cold coastal water (CCW) and mixed waters (MCW) than in other water types and that sardine was more associated with more offshore oceanic surface subtropical water (SSW). Surface temperature, salinity, latitude, season and distance to the coast data were used to define water masses. Results using generalized additive models (GAM), modelling sardine and anchovy presence–absence as a function of year, water body, bottom depth and latitude, showed that anchovy were primarily found in CCW and MCS, while sardine were more ubiquitous relative to water masses with some predilection for SSW. These results were supported by various indexes of anchovy and sardine distribution versus water mass as well as temporal and location variables.

26/1307: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evaluationoftheperformanceandrobustnessofvpabasedstockassessmentandmsybasedmanagementstrategytoprocesserrortheatlanticbluefintunacasestudy> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Evaluation of the performance and robustness of VPA-based stock assessment and MSY-based management strategy to process error : The Atlantic bluefin tuna case study
An integrative simulation framework was built to evaluate the consequences of variability attributable to changes in carrying capacity or the stock's migration pattern of Atlantic bluefin tuna on the ICCAT stock assessment and management procedures. We also evaluated the performances of stock assessment methods with respect to their ability to provide good estimates of MSY, FMSY and BMSY and tested the robustness of the current ICCAT management strategy to uncertainty about the true dynamics and historical exploitation levels. The results clearly indicate that the VPA performances were seriously impaired if the long-term variations in catches are due to changes in migration/availability. There is further considerable confounding between the underlying dynamics and increasing effort that makes it difficult to draw any inference about the actual dynamics based on commercial catch data. Reference points based on F (e.g., F0.1) were less biased and more precise than those based on yield and/or SSB and were also more robust to uncertainty about the true dynamics than absolute values of F and SSB. However, F0.1 cannot indicate past and current levels of exploitation relative to FMSY when there is uncertainty about the dynamics. Therefore, while reference points such as F0.1 may be good proxies for FMSY, the MSY concept may be difficult to make operational. A size limit strategy generates greater yields than the more sophisticated F0.1, but lower SSB. However, the performances of both strategies were strongly dependent on the period over which they are implemented relative to the intrinsic cycle of the population. We finally stressed that the performances and robustness of management strategies also depend on concrete objectives, such as fleet composition, gear selectivity and economic constraints.

27/1308: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howcansciencecontributetoanecosystemapproachtopelagicdemersalandrocklobsterfisheriesinsouthafrica> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : How can science contribute to an ecosystem approach to pelagic, demersal and rock lobster fisheries in South Africa?
South Africa is committed to moving towards an Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries (EAF) and has laid the foundations for this using a three-pronged approach: through a project (EAF Feasibility Study) under the Benguela Current Large Marine Ecosystem Programme; through a dedicated scientific working group established by the Marine and Coastal Management branch of South Africa's Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism; and through collaborative scientific and modelling studies within the joint French-South African ‘Upwelling Ecosystems' Programme. This contribution provides an overview of the progress made towards developing an EAF in South Africa, both on the scientific front in terms of improved understanding of the functioning of the Benguela ecosystem and the ways in which its ecosystem components interact, and regarding the practical ways being explored to enable scientific advice to feed in to South African fisheries management while taking into account broad stakeholder concerns. The paper focusses particularly on the role played by scientific contributions (research and monitoring) to address these ecosystem issues in three important South African fisheries — pelagic, demersal and rock lobster — so that the appropriate management measures can be put into place. Socio-economic concerns are included for the rock lobster fishery.

28/1309: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteontheyearlycatchesbycountryandgearofthefismfranceivorycoastsenegalmoroccofleetduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Note on the yearly catches by country and gear of the FISM (France - Ivory Coast - Senegal - Morocco) fleet during the 1969-1990 period
The current ICCAT Task 1 statistics database does not include any record of catch for Senegal and Ivory Coast during the period 1969-1990 as these data were historically included in the aggregated catch data of the so-called “FISM” fleet under the flag ‘EC.France'. Landing and logbook data were used to reallocate the FISM fleet catch between countries. This analysis shows the need to clarify the Task 1 ICCAT statistics by country and historic gear, and ask France, Ivory Coast and Senegal to declare their respective catch during 1969-1990. This change in the ICCAT database will not affect the total catch of Task 1 statistics.

29/1310: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/themesessionuonacoustictechniquesforthreedimensionalcharacterizationandclassificationofthepelagicecosystemu> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Theme Session U  on  Acoustic Techniques for Three-dimensional Characterization and Classification of the Pelagic Ecosystem (U)
BACKGROUND:
Comprehension of the three dimensional and dynamic features of pelagic marine ecosystems
is important for developing effective methodology to support ecosystem-based management of
marine resources. To achieve this goal, there is an increasing need for efficient tools to conserve
the ecosystem integrity when studying fish populations. Acoustic techniques are nonintrusive,
and may be used to look at aquatic ecosystems over a broad range of spatial and
temporal scales. Powerful 3D visualisation systems can be applied on 2D and 3D acoustic
devices to observe marine ecosystems with a new perspective.
The three-dimensional scales of aquatic ecosystems range from the smallest (centimetres) to
the widest areas (hundreds of nautical miles). Physical, chemical, and biological properties
show strong gradients (e.g. coast/offshore, north/south, high/low temperature) and complex
structures (e.g. fronts, eddies) along the vertical and the horizontal planes, forming specific
habitats for pelagic organisms. The improved understanding of the relation between the environmental
characteristics and the organisms, as well as their intra- and inter-specific interactions,
preserving the three-dimensional context where these interactions take place is important.
New technologies and approaches to efficiently collect, compute, display and validate
three-dimensional multivariate data on aquatic ecosystems are now available. This session
aims at presenting the current state of methodology for characterization and visualisation of
spatial and temporal dynamics in marine pelagic ecosystems while preserving the 3D spatial
context. Case study presenting applications and future potentials of these methodologies
would also be strongly appreciated in this session.

30/1311: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/pelagiclonglinefishingdepthconfrontingcatenarytheorydatawithdepthobservationsfrommonitoredlonglinefishingexperimentswp> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Pelagic longline fishing depth: Confronting catenary theory data with depth observations from monitored longline fishing experiments (WP5)
The aim of this paper is to ascertain the accuracy of hooks depth distribution estimated from the catenary theory model commonly used in CPUE standardization. From hook depth observations collected during monitored longline fishing experiments conducted in the central part of the South Pacific Ocean, we explore the effects of several environmental descriptors and variables describing gear configuration and fishing tactic on the longline shoaling (i.e., the difference between the observed and the theoretical maximum fishing depth). Our results showed that the shoaling (absolute and relative) can be significantly influenced by the current shear, the direction of the setting and the shape of the mainline (i.e., the tangential angle) which is the strongest and the most consistent predictor in GLMs. Some simple transformations are proposed to account for the non-linearity between the shoaling and the explanatory variables. As a consequence, our findings suggest that catenary maximum fishing depth estimates or the number of hooks per basket should be used with caution in methods addressed for CPUE standardization. In addition, we conclude by a discussion on how suitable data could be collected routinely on commercial fishing vessels in order to estimate the maximum fishing depth at the set operation level.

31/1312: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hfradarobservationsofsurfacecirculationoffbodegabaynortherncaliforniausa> : SCORE = 1.002916
Doc : HF radar observations of surface circulation off Bodega Bay (northern California, USA)
[1] Two high-frequency radar stations (CODAR) were installed along the northern California coast in May 2001. Comparisons of radar data with acoustic Doppler current profiler ( ADCP) current data and near-surface drifter tracks indicate considerable agreement, with minimum RMS differences of order 0.05 - 0.15 m/s and average drifter-HF-radar track separation rates of 5 +/- 3 km/d. Radar data resolve the three main sources of intraseasonal current variability in the area: ( 1) upwelling/relaxation dynamics, ( 2) tidal and diurnal forcing, and ( 3) inertial currents. Subtidal fluctuations are the largest component of variability, accounting for 45 - 75% of the variance. Wind-driven dynamics are the dominant source of this subtidal variability (67% of subtidal variability). Both upwelling and relaxation periods exhibit consistent patterns of surface velocity, with nearshore currents being slower and more poleward than offshore currents, which are strongly equatorward. Analysis of tidal and inertial variability indicate that current fluctuations are polarized toward clockwise rotation and are generally weaker and more linearly polarized near the coast. M-2 tidal current ellipses switch direction of rotation at the shelf break, suggesting the presence of internal tidal waves. Currents in all frequency bands are deflected and accelerated around Pt. Reyes, and there are indications of increased current variability and changes in flow direction near Cordell Bank. The presence of considerable cross-shore and alongshore gradients in the strength and direction of surface flow patterns, and in particular weak poleward currents over the inner shelf, could have important consequences for plankton retention in the area.

32/1313: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/gaoanenvironmentaldatabaseandsoftwaredesignedforfisheriesbiologists> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : GAO: an environmental database and software designed for fisheries biologists
This paper presents a software (GAO) processing oceanographic data for fisheries research.
GAO is built from large datasets covering the tropical Atlantic and Indian Oceans, some
records starting in the early years of the 20th century. Observations are restricted to the upper
500m of the ocean, which encompasses most of the habitat of tunas and other top predators of
the offshore pelagic ecosystem. The datasets include oceanographic stations (temperature,
salinity, dissolved oxygen, phosphates and nitrates at depth levels), vertical temperature
profiles (MBTs, XBTs, CTDs), outputs of the OPA ocean circulation model (temperature,
salinity, current vectors, vertical velocity, at 13 depth levels), sea surface temperature and
wind-derived fields, Topex sea level anomalies and soon, a temperature-at-depth database at
grid points on the global ocean. These datasets are prepared in a way enabling data storage
and processing on the local hard disk of a standard personal computer. A Windows® software
performs extraction and queries on these databases. The goal of GAO is to be an easy-tohandle
tool for working groups in the fisheries domain, where quick reference to physical
environment is sometimes required.

33/1314: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystembriefhistorypresentstatusandaviewtowardsthefuture> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : The northern Humboldt Current System: Brief history, present status and a view towards the future
INTRODUCTION 
The tropical ocean off the west coast of South America is notable for several reasons. First, it is unusually cool for an ocean that is so close to the equator with sea surface temperatures at 5 °S off Peru as cool as 16 °C when most other tropical locations are in excess of 25 °C. Upwelling of cool waters brings phytoplankton nutrients to the surface, dramatically increasing biological productivity in this low-latitude region of few storms. Second, as a result of the enhanced productivity, the northern Humboldt Current System (HCS) off Peru produces more fish per unit area than any other region in the world oceans (Fig. 1), representing less than 0.1% of the world ocean surface but presently producing about 10% of the world fish catch. Third, as a result of sinking and decay of surface-derived primary production and poor ventilation, surface oxygenated waters overlie an intense and extremely shallow Oxygen Minimum Zone (OMZ). The OMZ forms a barrier to some animals, concentrating living resources near the surface. At the other end of the spectrum different forms of marine life have adapted to this harsh environment, some utilizing it as a refuge from predation. The OMZ also affects global nutrient budgets, as nitrate instead of oxygen is used by bacteria as a terminal electron acceptor. Fourth, beneath the OMZ, in layered continental shelf sediments the absence of oxygen preserves dead organisms, creating a record of past ecosystem and climate changes. Fifth, through ocean/atmosphere coupling, the northern HCS is intimately linked to equatorial Pacific dynamics and is subject to large interannual to multidecadal fluctuations in climate, ecosystems and its fisheries.

34/1315: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/applicationoftheproceanmodeltotheeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamistunafishery> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Application of the Procean Model to the eastern atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) tuna fishery
The PROCEAN (PRoduction Catch / Effort ANalysis) model is a multi-fleet biomass dynamic
model developed in a Bayesian framework to conduct stock assessments based on catch and
effort time series data. PROCEAN was applied to the eastern component of the Atlantic
skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) to assess the current status of the stock and provide reference
points to fishery managers. Data included 8 time series of catch and effort data spanning from
1969 to 2006 and mostly standardised based on generalized linear modelling techniques.
Informative priors and constraints for some parameters were used to allow the model to
converge. Model fits were generally good but indicated increasing trends in the residuals for
some fishing fleets. Results suggested that the eastern Atlantic skipjack stock would be
underexploited, with a biomass in 2006 equal to 1.8 times the biomass at the maximum
sustainable yield (MSY) and a fishing mortality in 2006 equal to 30% of the fishing mortality at
MSY (FMSY). A sensitivity analysis performed to account for uncertainty in some input
parameters showed that FMSY estimates were robust to parameter changes while MSY estimates
were sensitive to the prior distribution for MSY. Based on the different model runs, the MSY
was estimated to be comprised between 152,000 and 185,000 t. The use of random walks on
catchability was useful for tracking changes in catchability and associated increasing fishing
power for some baitboat fishing fleets targeting skipjack.

35/1316: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemmodellingapproachesforsouthafricanfisheriesmanagement> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Ecosystem modelling approaches for South African fisheries management
A variety of ecosystem modeling approaches is available, some of which have
been successfully applied to the southern Benguela ecosystem. How these models could be
useful for fisheries management and how they might assist in reconciling fisheries with
conservation, has not always been clear. At the end of 2002, a workshop was held to introduce
the concept of an ecosystem approach to fisheries (EAF) management to South African scientists
and managers. It was recommended that an EAF be implemented as an incremental process
with immediate effect in South Africa. An ecosystem modeling perspective should be incorporated
into existing single species management recommendations by using ecosystem models to test
the implications of these recommendations. This paper describes the rich variety of ecosystem
models that are being applied to the southern Benguela. Focusing on the South African small
pelagic fisheries, it documents how these models are assisting the current implementation of an
EAF in the southern Benguela and suggests how future management and conservation issues
should be addressed in South African fisheries.

36/1317: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thedevelopmentofanoperationalmodelandsimulationprocedurefortestinguncertaintiesintheatlanticbigeyethunnusobesusstockassessment> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : The development of an operational model and simulation procedure for testing uncertainties in the Atlantic Bigeye (Thunnus obesus) stock assessment
Atlantic bigeye is a highly migratory species widely distributed through the whole Atlantic.
Recent assessments conducted by the ICCAT SCRS are highly uncertain due to the large
uncertainties in biological parameters, such as M, as well as in fishery statistics (e.g., IUU
fleets, juvenile catch) or abundance indexes. Similar uncertainties can be found in the Indian or
Pacific stocks. The development of an operational model has been recommended by different
regional fishery organizations as a good approach to investigate the sensitivity of the
assessment results to the uncertainties in the different inputs. This document presents an
operational model for the Atlantic bigeye as part of a simulation framework that will allow the
performance of management strategies based on current and improved biological knowledge
and management procedures to be evaluated.

37/1318: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analyticalapproachestoinvestigatingseabirdenvironmentinteractionsareview> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Analytical approaches to investigating seabird–environment interactions: a review
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In the present paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour and their environment, in order to assess current trends, weaknesses and the future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where, in most cases, no behavioural information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. The vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas a few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird–environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, mesoscale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modelling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multiscale and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

38/1319: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howtorecognizethefishinthetreesmethodologicalreflectionsforthefishpopulationassessmentinanartificialreservoir> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : How to recognize the fish in the trees ? Methodological reflections for the fish population assessment in an artificial reservoir
Estimate the impact of the fishery pressure on a fish population is an important current goal for the research programs. The present work takes place in such a frame, applied to lacustrine environment. The experiments were performed in two contrasted Malian lakes, from the ex-ploitation point of view. Facing the difficulty to get historical series, an estimate of the tempo-ral evolution is appraised through the comparison of these two lakes which are at different fishery levels. The acoustic prospecting ran into difficulties which are specific to some conti-nental waters areas, where various types of vegetation are present. In these cases, fish like usually remaining hidden into these areas. After some experience, it becomes possible to clas-sify visually a large part of the echotraces; nevertheless it remains a part of subjectivity and the processing is fastidious. Statistical methods have therefore been tested in order to find keys to automate the processing. But even in the best case, the use of these keys depends a lot on the fish behaviour, which is very different from one lake to the other, with schooling fish in the more exploited reservoir, and dispersed fish in the other.

39/1320: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/potentialbiasinmultispeciessamplingofpurseseinercatches> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Potential bias in multispecies sampling of purse seiner catches
This paper discusses the various potential biases associated with species and size sampling carried out in the AtlanticOcean during landings of purse seiners. This paper is a follow- up of the 4th meeting of the WCPFC Scientific Committee during which there were serious doubts expressed upon the bias faced by the sampling schemes used in the Atlantic since 1980. The conclusion of the paper is that the sampling scheme currently used in the Atlantic appears to be consistent and satisfactory, but that minor potential biases in this sampling should be better identified and reduced by improvements in the current sampling and data processing. It is recommended that an international working group is organized to identify these uncertainties and to improve the multispecies sampling schemes and the data processing of their results.

40/1321: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/doesverticalmigratorybehaviourretainfishlarvaeonshoreinupwellingecosystemsamodellingstudyofanchovyinthesouthernbenguela> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Does vertical migratory behaviour retain fish larvae onshore in upwelling ecosystems? A modelling study of anchovy in the southern Benguela
A spatially explicit individual-based model (IBM) forced by 3D temperature and current fields simulated by a hydrodynamic model of the southern Benguela upwelling region was used to test two hypotheses concerning the role of diel vertical migration (DVM) by Cape anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus larvae and pre-recruits. These hypotheses were that: (1) DVM enhances alongshore transport of anchovy eggs and larvae from the spawning grounds to the nursery area while avoiding the lethal effect of low water temperatures in the upwelling system, and/or (2) DVM enhances the transport of larvae and pre-recruits from the offshore to the onshore domain of the nursery area, and then counteracts offshore advection by favouring retention. We tracked the trajectories of virtual particles in the model and calculated a pre-recruitment index as a proxy for transport success to the nursery area (onshore and offshore) and found that the indexincreased from 10% to 20% after the incorporation of larval vertical migration into the IBM, with virtual individuals held at depths of around 60 m showing maximal pre-recruitment index values. Hence, DVM does appear to enhance transport to the nursery area (offshore) for early and late larvae. Model outputs showed coarse-scale horizontal distribution patterns of larvae by age/size class that are similar to field observations for early, small larvae but not for large larvae and pre-recruits. Observations show that early/ small larvae are located offshore whereas older/ larger larvae and pre-recruits are found closer to the continental shelf and the inner nursery grounds. This disparity between model results and field observations does not support the hypothesis that DVM is one of the mechanisms involved in the onshore movement of early life-history stages, especially for large larvae.

41/1322: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemmodelingapproachesforsouthafricanfisheriesmanagement> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Ecosystem Modeling Approaches for South African Fisheries Management
A variety of ecosystem modeling approaches is available, some of which have been successfully applied to the southern Benguela ecosystem. How these models could be useful for fisheries management and how they might assist in reconciling fisheries with conservation, has not always been clear. At the end of 2002, a workshop was held to introduce the concept of an ecosystem approach to fisheries (EAF) management to South African scientists and managers. It was recommended that an EAF be implemented as an incremental process with immediate effect in South Africa. An ecosystem modeling perspective should be incorporated into existing single species management recommendations by using ecosystem models to test the implications of these recommendations. This paper describes the rich variety of ecosystem models that are being applied to the southern Benguela. Focusing on the South African small pelagic fisheries, it documents how these models are assisting the current implementation of an EAF in the southern Benguela and suggests how future management and conservation issues should be addressed in South African fisheries.

42/1323: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anchovyearlylifeinthenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystemanindividualbasedmodelstudy> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Anchovy early life in the northern Humboldt Current system: an individual-based model study
We used an individual-based model of anchovy (Engraulis ringens) early life history coupled with hydrodynamic outputs from the regional oceanic modeling system (ROMS) to investigate the factors driving variability in egg and larval survival rates in the northern Humboldt upwelling region off Peru. Individuals were released within a coastal area and followed for a period of 30 days. Those that were still in the coastal area at that time were considered as retained. We investigated the spatial and temporal variability in the release locations of the individuals retained, and compared these to observed egg concentration patterns reconstructed from a 40-year period of monitoring. A first set of simulations using passive particles to represent anchovy eggs and larvae revealed a large sensitivity of the results to the initial vertical distribution of particles. We then conducted two additional sets of simulations that included the effect of egg buoyancy, larval vertical swimming behavior and lethal temperature. We obtained (1) maximal coastal retention close to the surface in winter and in deeper layers in summer, (2) a large influence of egg buoyancy and of larval vertical behavior on coastal retention in all seasons, (3) a partial match between dates and locations of enhanced retention and observed egg concentration patterns and (4) a low effect of lethal temperature on survival except when associated with high egg density. The model suggests that an optimal temporal spawning pattern for maximizing coastal retention would have two maximums, the most significant in austral winter and the second in summer. This pattern agrees roughly with observed spawning seasonality, but with temporal discrepancy of about two months in the peaks of both series. Spatially, we obtained higher retention from 10 S to 20 S, whereas the observed maximum egg concentration was located between 6°S and 14°S. Among the three sets of simulations, the one taking into account larval vertical swimming behavior lead to the best match with the data.

43/1324: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystempartiielucidatingecosystemdynamicsfromtowithafocusontheimpactofenso> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part II: Elucidating ecosystem dynamics from 1995 to 2004 with a focus on the impact of ENSO
The Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem is one of the most productive in the world in terms of fish production. Its location near to the equator permits strong upwelling under relatively low winds, thus creating optimal conditions for the development of plankton communities. These communities ultimately support abundant populations of grazing fish such as the Peruvian anchoveta, Engraulis ringens. The ecosystem is also subject to strong inter-annual environmental variability associated with the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO), which has major effects on nutrient structure, primary production, and higher trophic levels. Here our objective is to model the contributions of several external drivers (i.e. reconstructed phytoplankton changes, fish immigration, and fishing rate) and internal control mechanisms (i.e. predator-prey) to ecosystem dynamics over an ENSO cycle. Steady-state models and timeseries data from the Instituto del Mar del Perú (IMARPE) from 1995 to 2004 provide the base data for simulations conducted with the program Ecopath with Ecosim. In simulations all three external drivers contribute to ecosystem dynamics. Changes in phytoplankton quantity and composition (i.e. contribution of diatoms and dino- and silicoflagellates), as affected by upwelling intensity, were important in dynamics of the El Niño of 1997–98 and the subsequent 3 years. The expansion and immigration of mesopelagic fish populations during El Niño was important for dynamics in following years. Fishing rate changes were the most important of the three external drivers tested, helping to explain observed dynamics throughout the modeled period, and particularly during the post-El Niño period. Internal control settings show a mix of predator–prey control settings; however a ‘‘wasp-waist” control of the ecosystem by small pelagic fish is not supported.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

44/1325: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/revisitingperuviananchovyengraulisringenstrophodynamicsprovidesanewvisionofthehumboldtcurrentsystem> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Revisiting Peruvian anchovy (Engraulis ringens) trophodynamics provides a new vision of the Humboldt Current system
The Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) forages on plankton and is a main prey for marine mammals, seabirds, fish, and fishers, and is therefore a key element of the food web in the Humboldt Current system (HCS). Here, we present results from the analysis of 21,203 anchoveta stomach contents sampled during 23 acoustic surveys over the period 1996–2003. Prey items were identified to the genus level, and the relative dietary importance of different prey was assessed by determination of their carbon content. Variability in stomach fullness was examined relative to the diel cycle, the distance from the coast, sea surface temperature, and latitude, using generalized additive models (GAMs). Whereas phytoplankton largely dominated anchoveta diets in terms of numerical abundance and comprised >99% of ingested prey items, the carbon content of prey items indicated that zooplankton was by far the most important dietary component, with euphausiids contributing 67.5% of dietary carbon followed by copepods (26.3%). Stomach fullness data showed that anchoveta feed mainly during daytime between 07h00 and 18h00, although night-time feeding also made a substantial contribution to total food consumption. Stomach fullness also varied with latitude, distance from the coast, and temperature, but with substantial variability indicating a high degree of plasticity in anchoveta feeding behaviour. The results suggest an ecological role for anchoveta that challenges current understanding of its position in the foodweb, the functioning of the HCS, and trophic models of the HCS.
©2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

45/1326: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/effectsofthegeardeploymentstrategyandcurrentshearonpelagiclonglineshoaling> : SCORE = 0.62052256
Doc : Effects of the gear deployment strategy and current shear on pelagic longline shoaling
Historical longline catch per unit effort (CPUE) constitutes the major time series used in tuna stock assessment to followthe trend in abundance since the beginning of the large-scale tuna fisheries. The efficiency and species composition of a longline fishing operations essentially depends on the overlap in the vertical and spatial distribution between hooks and species habitat. Longline catchability depends on the vertical distribution of hooks and the aim of our paper was to analyse principal factors affecting the deviation of observed longline hook depths from predicted values. Since observed hook depth is usually shallower than predicted, this deviation is called longline shoaling.We evaluate the accuracy of hook depth distribution estimated from a theoretical catenary model commonly used in longline CPUE standardizations. Temperature-depth recorders (TDRs) were deployed on baskets of a monitored longline. Mainline shapes and maximum fishing depths were similar to gear configurations commonly used to target both yellowfin and bigeye tuna by commercial longliners in the central part of the South Pacific Ocean. Our working hypothesis assumes that the maximum fishing depth reached by the mainline depends on the gear configuration (sag ratio, mainline length per basket), the fishing tactics (bearing of the setting) and environmental variables characterizing water mass dynamics (wind stress, current velocity and shear). Based on generalized additive models (GAMs) simple transformations are proposed to account for the non-linearity between the shoaling and explanatory variables. Then, generalized linear models (GLMs) were fit to model the effects of explanatory variables on the longline shoaling. Results indicated that the shoaling (absolute aswell as relative) was significantly influenced by (1) the shape of the mainline (i.e., the tangential angle), which is the strongest predictor, and (2) the current shear and the direction of setting. Geometric forcing (i.e. transverse versus in-line) between the environment and the longline set is shown for the first time from in situ experimental fishing data. Results suggest that a catenary model that does not take these factors into consideration provides a biased estimate of the vertical distribution of hooks and must be used with caution in CPUEs standardization methods. Since catchability varies in time and space we discuss how suitable data could be routinely collected onboard commercial fishing vessels in order to estimate longline catchability for stock assessments.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved..

46/1327: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystemparticomparingtrophiclinkagesunderlaninaandelninoconditions> : SCORE = 0.5066545
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part I: Comparing trophic linkages under La Niña and El Niño conditions
The El Niño of 1997–98 was one of the strongest warming events of the past century; among many other effects, it impacted phytoplankton along the Peruvian coast by changing species composition and reducing biomass. While responses of the main fish resources to this natural perturbation are relatively well known, understanding the ecosystem response as a whole requires an ecotrophic multispecies approach. In this work, we construct trophic models of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem (NHCE) and compare the La Niña (LN) years in 1995–96 with the El Niño (EN) years in 1997–98. The model area extends from 4°S–16°S and to 60 nm from the coast. The model consists of 32 functional groups of organisms and differs from previous trophic models of the Peruvian system through: (i) division of plankton into size classes to account for EN-associated changes and feeding preferences of small pelagic fish, (ii) increased division of demersal groups and separation of life history stages of hake, (iii) inclusion of mesopelagic fish, and (iv) incorporation of the jumbo squid (Dosidicus gigas), which became abundant following EN. Results show that EN reduced the size and organization of energy flows of the NHCE, but the overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators, detritus and export) of the ecosystem was maintained. The reduction of diatom biomass during EN forced omnivorous planktivorous fish to switch to a more zooplankton-dominated diet, raising their trophic level. Consequently, in the EN model the trophic level increased for several predatory groups (mackerel, other large pelagics, sea birds, pinnipeds) and for fishery catch. A high modeled biomass of macrozooplankton was needed to balance the consumption by planktivores, especially during EN condition when observed diatoms biomass diminished dramatically. Despite overall lower planktivorous fish catches, the higher primary production required-to-catch ratio implied a stronger ecological impact of the fishery and stresses the need for precautionary management of fisheries during and after EN. During EN energetic indicators such as the lower primary production/total biomass ratio suggest a more energetically efficient ecosystem, while reduced network indicators such as the cycling index and relative ascendency indicate of a less organized state of the ecosystem. Compared to previous trophic models of the NHCE we observed: (i) a shrinking of ecosystem size in term of energy flows, (ii) slight changes in overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators and detritus), and (iii) the use of alternate pathways leading to a higher ecological impact of the fishery for planktivorous fish.

47/1328: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/phytoplanktondistributionintheagulhassystemfromacoupledphysicalbiologicalmodel> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Phytoplankton distribution in the Agulhas system from a coupled physical-biological model
The greater Agulhas Current system has several components with high mesoscale turbulence. The phytoplankton distribution in the southwest Indian Ocean reflects this activity. We have used a regional eddy-permitting, coupled physical-biological model to study the physical-biological interactions and to address the main processes responsible for phytoplankton distribution in three different biogeochemical provinces: the southwest Subtropical Indian Gyre (SWSIG), the subtropical convergence zone (SCZ) and the subantarctic waters (SAW) south of South Africa. The biological model with four compartments (Nitrate-Phytoplankton-Zooplankton-Detritus) adequately reproduces the observed field of chlorophyll a. The phase of the strong modelled seasonality in the SWSIG is opposite to that of the SCZ that forms the southern boundary of the subtropical gyre. Phytoplankton concentrations are governed by the source-minus-sink terms, which are one order of magnitude greater than the dynamical diffusion and advection terms. North of 35°S, in the SWSIG, phytoplankton growth is limited by nutrients supply throughout the year. However, deeper stratification, enhanced cross-frontal transport and higher detritus remineralization explain the simulated higher concentrations of phytoplankton found in winter in the SWSIG. The region between 35° and 40S constitutes a transition zone between the SCZ and the oligotrophic subtropical province. Horizontal advection is the main process bringing nutrients for phytoplankton growth. The front at 34 °S represents a dynamical barrier to an extension further to the north of this advection of nutrients. Within the SCZ, primary production is high during spring and summer. This high productivity depletes the nutrient standing stock built up during winter time. In winter, nutrients supply in the convergence zone is indeed large, but the deep mixing removes phytoplankton from the euphotic zone and inhibits photosynthesis, yielding lower surface chlorophyll a concentrations. Waters south of the Subantarctic Front have a summer biomass close to that of frontal waters and higher than for subtropical waters. However, these simulated concentrations are slightly higher than the observed ones suggesting that limitation by iron and/or silica may play a role.

48/1329: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitytheoryforanecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Viability theory for an ecosystem approach to fisheries
Maintenance of overall ecosystem complexity is perceived as critical to the sustainability of ecosystem use. The development of an operational basis for an ecosystem approach to fisheries, however, faces many difficulties. On the research side, the challenge is in defining proper long-term, ecosystem-related objectives; determining meaningful reference values and indicators for desirable or undesirable states of the ecosystem; and developing appropriate data collection, analytical tools and models. The ‘‘viability'' concept developed in economics by Jean-Pierre Aubin can be used to assist in the definition, selection of, and interaction among long-term objectives at an ecosystem level. It recognizes that ecosystems are complex assemblages of interacting and self-organizing natural and human components that cannot be predicted. Viability models define an ensemble of ‘‘viable states'', in contrast to undesirable states defined as such by ecological, economic, and/or social constraints. These constraints can be derived from fisheries objectives, conservation principles, scientific results of modelling, or precautionary principles, and correspond to limit reference points to be avoided. Viability theory does not attempt to choose any ‘‘optimal solution'' according to given criteria, but selects ‘‘viable evolutions''. These evolutions are compatible with the constraints in the sense that they satisfy them at each time and can be delineated by the viability kernel. The southern Benguela marine ecosystem is presented as a first attempt for the application of this theory. In defining ecosystem-based objectives (and related issues such as target reference points), it seems more difficult to reach consensus among stakeholders on what is desirable than on what is undesirable (e.g. biological or economic collapse, species extinction, displacement of local rural communities). Expressed in the negative form or as limit reference points, ecosystembased constraints can be considered simultaneously with current target reference points, such as maximum sustainable yield, using viability models. The viability approach can help to progressively integrate ecosystem considerations, such as conservation, into fisheries management. © 2004 International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.



1254) Recherche du mot : Balearic Sea (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/balearicSea)


1255) Recherche du mot : élément biotique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/biotic_element)


1256) Recherche du mot : Arctocephalus Australis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/arctocephalus_Australis)


1257) Recherche du mot : Thunnus albacares (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_albacares)
1/1330: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.

2/1331: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/isotopicevidenceofdistinctfeedingecologiesandmovementpatternsintwomigratorypredatorsyellowfintunaandswordfishofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Isotopic evidence of distinct feeding ecologies and movement patterns in two migratory predators (yellowfin tuna and swordfish) of the western Indian Ocean
Ecologists primarily use δ15N values to estimate the trophic level of organisms, while δ13C, and even recently δ15N, are utilized to delineate feeding habitats. However, many factors can influence the stable isotopic composition of consumers, e.g. age, starvation or isotopic signature of primary producers. Such sources of variability make the interpretation of stable isotope data rather complex. To examine these potential sources of variability, muscle tissues of yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) and swordfish (Xiphias gladius) of various body lengths were sampled between 2001 and 2004 in the western Indian Ocean during different seasons and along a latitudinal gradient (23°S to 5°N). Body length and latitude effects on δ15N and δ13C were investigated using linear models. Both latitude and body length significantly affect the stable isotope values of the studied species but variations were much more pronounced for δ15N. We explain the latitudinal effect by differences in nitrogen dynamics existing at the base of the food web and propagating along the food chain up to top predators. This spatial pattern suggests that yellowfin and swordfish populations exhibit a relatively unexpected resident behaviour at the temporal scale of their muscle tissue turnover. The body length effect is significant for both species but this effect is more pronounced in swordfish as a consequence of their different feeding strategies, reflecting specific physiological abilities. Swordfish adults are able to reach very deep water and have access to a larger size range of prey than yellowfin tuna. In contrast, yellowfin juveniles and adults spend most of their time in the surface waters and large yellowfin tuna continue to prey on small organisms. Consequently, nitrogen isotopic signatures of swordfish tissues are higher than those of yellowfin tuna and provide evidence for different trophic levels between these species. Thus, in contrast to δ13C, δ15N analyses of tropical Indian Ocean marine predators allow the investigation of complex vertical and spatial segregation, both within and between species, even in the case of highly opportunistic feeding behaviours. The linear models developed in this study allow us to make predictions of δ15N values and to correct for any body length or latitude differences in future food web studies.

3/1332: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabiladultothunnusalbacaresdelaflotadecercotropicaleuropeaeneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Actualizacion de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil adulto (thunnus albacares) de la flota de cerco tropical europea en el oceano atlantico de 1980 a 2006
This document presents a standardized index update of adult yellowfin (>30 kg) of tropical purse seine fleets in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006. The data used were taken from spear fishing logbooks and detailed information of the fleet. The standardization has been carried out by generalized linear models (GLM) using the delta model. The standardized indices are obtained from the GLM model estimations: one is calculated from the least squares means (LSMeans) and another from the annual averages of the adjusted values. The variability of the latter is lower. Therefore, in this case, it is a more adequate index to be used in assessment models. The year, country, category, age of vessel and catches of skipjack tuna, which is the other target species of these fleets, were considered as explanatory variables.

4/1333: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deepdivingbehaviorobservedinyellowfintunathunnusalbacares> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Deep diving behavior observed in yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares)
Yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) are known to preferentially occupy the surface mixed layer above the thermocline and it has been suggested that they are physiologically restricted to water temperatures no more than 8 °C colder than surface waters. However, we here report for dive data acquired from a large yellowfin tuna which demonstrate for the first time that this species is indeed capable of making prolonged dives into deep cold waters. A yellowfin tuna (134 cm fork length) caught near an anchored fish aggregating device (FAD) in the Seychelles (Western Indian Ocean) was equipped with an internally implanted archival tag and released. The fish was recaptured 98 days later. As predicted for this species, this fish spent 85% of its time shallower than 75 m (maximum thermocline depth experienced by the fish) but, over the course of the track, it performed three deep dives to 578 m, 982 m and 1160 m. Minimum ambient water temperatures recorded at these depths were 8.6 °C, 7.4 °C and 5.8 °C respectively and varied by up to 23.3 °C from surface temperatures. The fish spent 8.3% of its time in waters more than 8 °C colder than the surface layer and daily experienced a wide range of sea temperatures (mode at 15-16 °C) and of temperatures of the gut cavity (mode at 6 °C). The reason for these dives can not be known. These depths and temperatures significantly exceed those reported in the literature so far and clearly demonstrate that this species has the physiological and behavioral ability to penetrate deep cold sections of the ocean.

5/1334: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/driftingfishaggregationdevicescouldactasanecologicaltrapfortropicaltunaspecies> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Drifting fish aggregation devices could act as an ecological trap for tropical tuna species
Purse seine fishing on fish aggregating devices (FADs) has expanded considerably during
the last 15 yr in tropical tuna purse seine fisheries, and FADs currently account for about 70% of
their reported tuna catches. The scientific community has expressed concern over the consequences
of this fishing practice in terms of yield per recruit and suspected detrimental effects on FADassociated
tunas. To explore possible detrimental effects, we compared stomach fullness, fish plumpness,
growth rate, and migration behaviour between free school and drifting FAD-associated tunas
for skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis and yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares caught in the Atlantic
and Indian Oceans. Significant differences in fish plumpness and individual growth rates were found,
suggesting that individuals associated with drifting FADs were less healthy than those in free schools.
Since stomach fullness indicated that tunas associated with FADs eat less than those in free schools,
the difference in growth rate and condition could be the consequence of altered feeding patterns. For
each species, significant changes in migratory direction and displacement rates were observed in the
presence of drifting FADs. These findings support the hypothesis that FADs act as a super-stimulus,
misleading tunas to make inappropriate habitat selection. However, further studies are required to
investigate the long-term effect of FADs on the entire life cycle of tunas.

6/1335: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mercurycontentincommercialpelagicfishanditsriskassessmentinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Mercury content in commercial pelagic fish and its risk assessment in the Western Indian Ocean
As top predators of pelagic food webs, large fish naturally bioaccumulate mercury (Hg). Determining Hg burdens in commercialized fish is essential considering the concern about effects of contaminants on human health and the legal thresholds that are therefore set for local consumption and/or exportation. Total Hg levels were measured in the muscular tissue of 183 fish of five commercially important species from the tropical zone of the Western Indian Ocean. All individuals were measured and sexed in order to study the impregnation of Hg with size and sex within each species. Values of Hg found in this part of the Indian Ocean were comparable to Hg in muscular tissue of the same species studied in other areas. The highest Hg levels were noted in Swordfish (Xiphias gladius) caught in waters surrounding Reunion Island (3.97 ± 2.67 μg.g−1 dry weight). Following the Swordfish, in decreasing order of Hg content, were the Yellowfin Tuna (Thunnus albacares) and the Skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), then the Common Dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) and the Wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri ). In the North of the Mozambique Channel, Swordfish had higher Hg levels than Yellowfin Tunas, and Dolphinfish exhibited intermediate Hg levels. The size of a fish was a determinating factor of its Hg burden, as was the species. Differences in size-normalized Hg levels were observed between the two study zones for Swordfish and Common Dolphinfish. Sex, in contrast, did not influence Hg levels suggesting that females and males have similar feeding habits. The muscular Hg levels presented here suggest that consumers of fish originating from theWestern Indian Ocean should limit themselves to one Swordfish based meal per week, or one fish meal a day if they choose to eat tuna or Common Dolphinfish.

7/1336: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/behaviorofyellowfinthunnusalbacaresandbigeyetobesustunainanetworkoffishaggregatingdevicesfads> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Behavior of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) and bigeye (T-obesus) tuna in a network of fish aggregating devices (FADs)
The influence of multiple anchored fish aggregating devices (FADs) on the spatial behavior of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) and bigeye tuna (T. obesus) was investigated by equipping all thirteen FADs surrounding the island of Oahu (HI, USA) with automated sonic receivers ("listening stations") and intra-peritoneally implanting individually coded acoustic transmitters in 45 yellowfin and 12 bigeye tuna. Thus, the FAD network became a multi-element passive observatory of the residence and movement characteristics of tuna within the array. Yellowfin tuna were detected within the FAD array for up to 150 days, while bigeye tuna were only observed up to a maximum of 10 days after tagging. Only eight yellowfin tuna (out of 45) and one bigeye tuna (out of 12) visited FADs other than their FAD of release. Those nine fish tended to visit nearest neighboring FADs and, in general, spent more time at their FAD of release than at the others. Fish visiting the same FAD several times or visiting other FADs tended to stay longer in the FAD network. A majority of tagged fish exhibited some synchronicity when departing the FADs but not all tagged fish departed a FAD at the same time: small groups of tagged fish left together while others remained. We hypothesize that tuna (at an individual or collective level) consider local conditions around any given FAD to be representative of the environment on a larger scale (e.g., the entire island) and when those conditions become unfavorable the tuna move to a completely different area. Thus, while the anchored FADs surrounding the island of Oahu might concentrate fish and make them more vulnerable to fishing, at a meso-scale they might not entrain fish longer than if there were no (or very few) FADs in the area. At the existing FAD density, the 'Cyisland effect' is more likely to be responsible for the general presence of fish around the island than the FADs. We recommend further investigation of this hypothesis.

8/1337: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleexploitationofamajortunaconcentrationintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Mesoscale exploitation of a major tuna concentration in the Indian Ocean
The paper analyzes the daily catch, fishing effort and fish size data of the purse seine fleet fishing in the
western Indian Ocean in February 2005, when a major concentration of tuna occurred and was heavily exploited by
this surface fishery. This tuna concentration event occurred over a period of just 12 days, in an area of about 3500
square nautical miles located to the west of the Seychelles. This small stratum produced a total catch of 22 000 t,
corresponding to 6.5% of the total fishing mortality of all adult yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) in the entire Indian
Ocean in 2005. Sets were made mainly on free schools and the catch mainly composed of large yellowfin tuna. The
average CPUE and the average catch per set were very large, 65 t and 85 t per fishing day, respectively. This “event” took
place in a precise area where a high concentration of chlorophyll had been localized 18 days before. The subsequent
concentration of tuna schools probably arose due to the high densities of their prey feeding on this large phytoplankton
biomass. This phytoplankton bloom was observed at the edge of an anticyclonic eddy, but its origin and its high density
cannot be fully explained by available environmental data. The adult yellowfin were probably at a reproductive stage
and actively feeding on the local food chain generated by the phytoplankton bloom. Such an event is extreme, but
typical of tuna purse seine fisheries where fleets often search for such tuna patches. These events play an important role
in tuna fisheries due to the increase in fishing effort and fishing efficiency of purses seiners, both of which increase their
impact on the resource. The fine scale study of such events and their improved integration into tuna stock assessments
is recommended.

9/1338: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimateofthenonlineargrowthrateofyellowfintunathunnusalbacaresintheatlanticandintheindianoceanfromtaggingdata> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Estimate of the non-linear growth rate of yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) in the Atlantic and in the Indian Ocean from tagging data.
In the lack of a satisfactory formulation for the two-stanza growth curve of yellowfin
(Thunnus albacores), estimates of growth rate by size class can be an alternative as an input for
integrated models. From tagging data collected in the Atlantic and in the Indian Ocean, we show
however that for growth rate that does not follow a classical linear decreasing trend over size, simple
estimates of length increments by size are biased due to an averaging effect of the time spent at liberty.
We simulate length at recapture to illustrate the magnitude of the bias which can be expected
depending on the duration of the time at liberty. Our results suggest that for large time at liberty
growth rates by size are smoothed in such a way that the Von Bertalanffy model could erroneously be
considered as a good alternative. With the aim of removing this bias we used a generalized additive
model (GAM) to calculate an instantaneous growth rate by size (i.e., fixing time at liberty at 1 day at
sea). The predicted growth rates by size are lower than the apparent growth rates but are similar in
magnitude and in shape with observed growth rates for moderate times at liberty (< 90 days at sea). In
the light of our findings, we suggest that hard part reading analyses, which in general reject the twostanza
growth assumption, could have been affected by the same type of bias.

10/1339: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofyellowfinthunnusalbacarestunastocksfisheriesandstockstatusworldwide> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : An overview of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) tuna stocks, fisheries and stock status worldwide
This paper makes a comparison of yellowfin
stocks worldwide, taking into account the biology of the
species as estimated in each ocean and the changes and
trends in the yellowfin fisheries observed in each ocean. This
paper presents and discusses a wide range of data and
figures comparing yellowfin stocks and fisheries in the four
« oceans », namely the Atlantic, Indian, Eastern and Western
Pacific. It shows an overview of the changes observed in each
ocean for the main yellowfin fisheries, longliners and purse
seiners: sizes of area fished, CPUE, changes in size
distribution and average weights, etc. The major biological
parameters estimated in each ocean by scientists, such as
natural mortality at age, spawning, sex ratio and growth are
presented and discussed. The methods used to assess
yellowfin stocks and the methodological uncertainties in the
yellowfin stock assessment are compared and discussed. The
conclusion is that it remains difficult to fully understand if the
increased catches of yellowfin observed world wide in most
oceans should be explained (1) by the effects of increasing
fishing zones, (2) by increased fishing effort and/or increased
fishing efficiency (3) and/or by increased biological productivity
of oceans or by a combination of these parameters. The
serious uncertainty in the understanding of the real
relationship between the longline and purse seine fisheries are
also discussed.

11/1340: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/timeseriesanalysisoftunaandswordfishcatchesandclimatevariabilityintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Time series analysis of tuna and swordfish catches and climate variability in the Indian Ocean (1968-2003)
We analysed the patterns of variation that characterize 33 catch time series of large pelagic fishes exploited by the Japanese and Taiwanese longline fisheries in the Indian Ocean from 1968 to 2003. We selected four species, the yellowfin (Thunnus albacares), the bigeye (T. obesus), the albacore (T. alalunga), and the swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and aggregated data into five biogeographic provinces of Longhurst (2001).We carried out wavelet analyses, an efficient method to study non-stationary time series, in order to get the time-scale patterns of each signals. We then compared and grouped the different wavelet spectra using a multivariate analysis to identify the factors (species, province or fleet) that may influence their clustering. We also investigated the associations between catch time series and a large-scale climatic index, the DipoleMode Index (DMI), using cross wavelet analyses. Our results evidenced that the geographical province is more important than the species level when analyzing the 33 catch time series in the tropical Indian Ocean. The DMI further impacted the variability of tuna and swordfish catch time series at several periodic bands and at different temporal locations, and we demonstrated that the geographic locations modulated its impact.We discussed the consistency of time series fluctuations that reflect embedded information and complex interactions between biological processes, fishing strategies and environmental variability at different scales.

12/1341: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragefaunainthedietofthreelargepelagicfishlancetfishswordfishandyellowfintunainthewesternequatorialindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Forage fauna in the diet of three large pelagic fish (lancetfish, swordfish and yellowfin tuna) in the western equatorial Indian Ocean
Prey composition and resource partitioning were investigated among three large pelagic fish predators, yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox), in a poorly known oceanic area, the western Indian Ocean. The contents of 380 non-empty stomachs were analysed from specimens caught with longlines during scientific cruises carried out from 2001 to 2003. Diet data were processed by occurrence, mean proportion by number, wet weight, and mean proportion by reconstituted weight. Crustaceans, dominated by the swimming crab Charybdis smithii and the stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris, were the major food source of lancetfish. Cannibalism was also significant for that species. Yellowfin tunas preyed upon a large diversity of mesopelagic fishes, crustaceans (C. smithii and crab larvae) and cephalopods (the ommastrephid Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis). Mesopelagic fishes (Cubiceps pauciradiatus and Diretmoides parini) and cephalopods (mainly S. oualaniensis) were the main prey of swordfish. Diet overlap between swordfish and yellowfin tuna was evidenced by high Morisita-Horn index. But the feeding habits of these three predators differed by foraging depth and prey size, with swordfish feeding at deeper depths and on larger prey than the more epipelagic lancetfish and yellowfin tuna. Using these three predators as biological samplers, the present study provides novel data on micronekton fauna that is poorly documented in the western Indian Ocean: 67 families and 84 species of prey were recovered in the stomach contents, and our results indicate the presence of large resources of pelagic crustaceans that play a primary role in the epipelagic food chain.



1258) Recherche du mot : écosystème lagunaire (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/lagoon_ecosystem)


1259) Recherche du mot : Giant trevally (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/caranx_ignobilis)


1260) Recherche du mot : has mitigation (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/has_mitigation)


1261) Recherche du mot : Yellowfin tuna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_albacares)
1/1342: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.

2/1343: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/isotopicevidenceofdistinctfeedingecologiesandmovementpatternsintwomigratorypredatorsyellowfintunaandswordfishofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.6021824
Doc : Isotopic evidence of distinct feeding ecologies and movement patterns in two migratory predators (yellowfin tuna and swordfish) of the western Indian Ocean
Ecologists primarily use δ15N values to estimate the trophic level of organisms, while δ13C, and even recently δ15N, are utilized to delineate feeding habitats. However, many factors can influence the stable isotopic composition of consumers, e.g. age, starvation or isotopic signature of primary producers. Such sources of variability make the interpretation of stable isotope data rather complex. To examine these potential sources of variability, muscle tissues of yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) and swordfish (Xiphias gladius) of various body lengths were sampled between 2001 and 2004 in the western Indian Ocean during different seasons and along a latitudinal gradient (23°S to 5°N). Body length and latitude effects on δ15N and δ13C were investigated using linear models. Both latitude and body length significantly affect the stable isotope values of the studied species but variations were much more pronounced for δ15N. We explain the latitudinal effect by differences in nitrogen dynamics existing at the base of the food web and propagating along the food chain up to top predators. This spatial pattern suggests that yellowfin and swordfish populations exhibit a relatively unexpected resident behaviour at the temporal scale of their muscle tissue turnover. The body length effect is significant for both species but this effect is more pronounced in swordfish as a consequence of their different feeding strategies, reflecting specific physiological abilities. Swordfish adults are able to reach very deep water and have access to a larger size range of prey than yellowfin tuna. In contrast, yellowfin juveniles and adults spend most of their time in the surface waters and large yellowfin tuna continue to prey on small organisms. Consequently, nitrogen isotopic signatures of swordfish tissues are higher than those of yellowfin tuna and provide evidence for different trophic levels between these species. Thus, in contrast to δ13C, δ15N analyses of tropical Indian Ocean marine predators allow the investigation of complex vertical and spatial segregation, both within and between species, even in the case of highly opportunistic feeding behaviours. The linear models developed in this study allow us to make predictions of δ15N values and to correct for any body length or latitude differences in future food web studies.

3/1344: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysisofdataobtainedfromobserverprogrammesconductedinandintheindianoceanonboardfrenchpurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Analysis of data obtained from observer programmes conducted in 2005 and 2006 in the indian ocean on board french purse seiners
This paper is a preliminary analysis of the data obtained under the National Database Plan (PNDB).
Between October 2005 and July 2006, three observers from the Development and Research Institute
(IRD) have been on board four French tuna purse seiners. They had to estimate by-catch and discard
and collect detailed information on the fishing activities and the use of FADs.
Areas prospected during these 134 days were NW Seychelles, SE Seychelles, E. Somalia and
Maldives-Chagos; 194 sets (116 positives and 86 negative) have been observed, with a majority
(84%) on free schools (162 sets, 51% positive) and quite few (16%) on associated schools (32 sets,
81% positives). During the day, the main activities of the boat were searching and fishing,
respectively 31% and 13% of total activity. Main reasons for null sets over free school as well as
FADs was that fish sinks or move too fast.
Discards were practically nulls and concerned mainly yellowfin tuna. About by-catch, it represents
less than 1% of total catch (in weight), mainly triggerfish, rainbow runner and wahoo. Selacians
(except shark whales) represented nearly 12% of the total by-catch (in weight) with mainly silky shark
over FADs and skate over free school. As regards billfishes, they represent 5% of total by-catch (in
weight) with mainly Indo-Pacific Sailfish over free school and black marlin over FADs.

4/1345: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitelinkedacousticreceiverstoobservebehavioroffishesinremoteareas> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Satellite-linked acoustic receivers to observe behavior of fishes in remote areas
Automated acoustic receivers are now widely used by biologists to study the behavior of fish. However, currently available acoustic receivers require physical recovery of the units to download stored data. Such operation is often difficult in remote study areas like in the open ocean. We present a new satellite-linked acoustic receiver (Vemco VR3-Argos) that allows downloading data through a satellite uplink (Argos). The VR3-Argos can last up to one year, sending GPS positions and tag data at regular time intervals. We illustrate the advantages of this new technology with tagging data from 121 fish of seven species (yellowfin tuna, bigeye tuna, skipjack tuna, wahoo, dolphinfish, silky shark and oceanic triggerfish) caught and released around drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean, far from any land. In opposition with the classic acoustic receivers (Vemco VR2), the use of VR3-Argos allowed to collect data for several weeks after leaving the drifting FADs. Maximum residence times of 3 days for bigeye tuna, 7 days for skipjack, 8 days for wahoo, 10 days for silky shark and 15 days for yellowfin tuna, dolphinfish and oceanic triggerfish could be recorded. VR2 and VR3-Argos are equivalent in terms of quality of residence times data, however depth data obtained through satellites are aggregated in 8 classes for compression purposes, which leads to a loss of precision available with raw data. Future directions of this technology are discussed.

5/1346: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deepdivingbehaviorobservedinyellowfintunathunnusalbacares> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Deep diving behavior observed in yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares)
Yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) are known to preferentially occupy the surface mixed layer above the thermocline and it has been suggested that they are physiologically restricted to water temperatures no more than 8 °C colder than surface waters. However, we here report for dive data acquired from a large yellowfin tuna which demonstrate for the first time that this species is indeed capable of making prolonged dives into deep cold waters. A yellowfin tuna (134 cm fork length) caught near an anchored fish aggregating device (FAD) in the Seychelles (Western Indian Ocean) was equipped with an internally implanted archival tag and released. The fish was recaptured 98 days later. As predicted for this species, this fish spent 85% of its time shallower than 75 m (maximum thermocline depth experienced by the fish) but, over the course of the track, it performed three deep dives to 578 m, 982 m and 1160 m. Minimum ambient water temperatures recorded at these depths were 8.6 °C, 7.4 °C and 5.8 °C respectively and varied by up to 23.3 °C from surface temperatures. The fish spent 8.3% of its time in waters more than 8 °C colder than the surface layer and daily experienced a wide range of sea temperatures (mode at 15-16 °C) and of temperatures of the gut cavity (mode at 6 °C). The reason for these dives can not be known. These depths and temperatures significantly exceed those reported in the literature so far and clearly demonstrate that this species has the physiological and behavioral ability to penetrate deep cold sections of the ocean.

6/1347: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climaticoscillationsandtunacatchratesintheindianoceanawaveletapproachtotimeseriesanalysis> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Climatic oscillations and tuna catch rates in the Indian Ocean: a wavelet approach to time series analysis
We analysed the influence of climatic oscillations
[based on the Indian Oscillation Index (IOI)] on
monthly catch rates of two tropical tuna species in
the equatorial Indian Ocean. We carried out wavelet
analysis, an efficient method of time series analysis
to study non-stationary data. Catch per unit of effort
(CPUE) of bigeye tuna was computed from Japanese
longline statistics from 1955 to 2002 in the equatorial
Indian Ocean and CPUE of yellowfin tuna
was derived from industrial purse seine statistics
from 1984 to 2003 in the Western Indian Ocean.
Wavelet analyses allowed us to quantify both the
pattern of variability in the time series and nonstationary
associations between tuna and climatic
signals. Phase analyses were carried out to investigate
dependency between the two signals. We
reported strong associations between tuna and
climate series for the 4- and 5-yr periodic modes, i.e.
the periodic band of the El Nin˜o Southern Oscillation
signal propagation in the Indian Ocean.
These associations were non-stationary, evidenced
from 1970 to 1990 for bigeye, and from 1984 to
1991 and then from 1993 to 2001 for yellowfin.
Warm episodes (low negative IOI values) matched
increases of longline catch rates of bigeye during the
1970–1990 time frame, whereas the strong 1997–
1998 warm event matched a decrease of purse seine
catch rates of yellowfin. We discussed these results
in terms of changes in catchability for purse seine
and longline.

7/1348: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/opportunisticpredationintunaasizebasedapproach> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Opportunistic predation in tuna: a size-based approach
To test whether predation is an opportunistic size-based process within a tuna community, analyses were carried out on the size composition of stomach contents of bigeye tuna Thunnus obesus (Lowe, 1839) and yellowfin tuna T. albacares (Bonnaterre, 1788) caught in 1995 to 1997 during longline scientific surveys in the French Polynesian Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). Prey size distributions were compared with the size distribution of organisms collected by pelagic trawls carried out during the same programme. Relationships between prey size and predator size were studied using quantile regressions, and were related to tuna mouth-gape measurements. The results showed that mean and maximum sizes of prey increased with increasing predator size, and that maximum prey sizes (versus tuna size) were below those predicted by tuna mouth-gape size. Minimum prey size varied little with tuna size, and the size distributions of prey in tuna stomachs were very asymmetrical (lognormal type), confirming that during growth, tunas continue to feed on small prey. Comparison with previous studies on other piscivorous species from different ecosystems underlined that tunas feed on very small prey in relation to their own size. However, comparison of size distributions of prey in stomach contents and prey in pelagic trawls revealed that bigeye tuna select larger prey than yellowfin tuna when such prey are available.

8/1349: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/driftingfishaggregationdevicescouldactasanecologicaltrapfortropicaltunaspecies> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Drifting fish aggregation devices could act as an ecological trap for tropical tuna species
Purse seine fishing on fish aggregating devices (FADs) has expanded considerably during
the last 15 yr in tropical tuna purse seine fisheries, and FADs currently account for about 70% of
their reported tuna catches. The scientific community has expressed concern over the consequences
of this fishing practice in terms of yield per recruit and suspected detrimental effects on FADassociated
tunas. To explore possible detrimental effects, we compared stomach fullness, fish plumpness,
growth rate, and migration behaviour between free school and drifting FAD-associated tunas
for skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis and yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares caught in the Atlantic
and Indian Oceans. Significant differences in fish plumpness and individual growth rates were found,
suggesting that individuals associated with drifting FADs were less healthy than those in free schools.
Since stomach fullness indicated that tunas associated with FADs eat less than those in free schools,
the difference in growth rate and condition could be the consequence of altered feeding patterns. For
each species, significant changes in migratory direction and displacement rates were observed in the
presence of drifting FADs. These findings support the hypothesis that FADs act as a super-stimulus,
misleading tunas to make inappropriate habitat selection. However, further studies are required to
investigate the long-term effect of FADs on the entire life cycle of tunas.

9/1350: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mercurycontentincommercialpelagicfishanditsriskassessmentinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Mercury content in commercial pelagic fish and its risk assessment in the Western Indian Ocean
As top predators of pelagic food webs, large fish naturally bioaccumulate mercury (Hg). Determining Hg burdens in commercialized fish is essential considering the concern about effects of contaminants on human health and the legal thresholds that are therefore set for local consumption and/or exportation. Total Hg levels were measured in the muscular tissue of 183 fish of five commercially important species from the tropical zone of the Western Indian Ocean. All individuals were measured and sexed in order to study the impregnation of Hg with size and sex within each species. Values of Hg found in this part of the Indian Ocean were comparable to Hg in muscular tissue of the same species studied in other areas. The highest Hg levels were noted in Swordfish (Xiphias gladius) caught in waters surrounding Reunion Island (3.97 ± 2.67 μg.g−1 dry weight). Following the Swordfish, in decreasing order of Hg content, were the Yellowfin Tuna (Thunnus albacares) and the Skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), then the Common Dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) and the Wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri ). In the North of the Mozambique Channel, Swordfish had higher Hg levels than Yellowfin Tunas, and Dolphinfish exhibited intermediate Hg levels. The size of a fish was a determinating factor of its Hg burden, as was the species. Differences in size-normalized Hg levels were observed between the two study zones for Swordfish and Common Dolphinfish. Sex, in contrast, did not influence Hg levels suggesting that females and males have similar feeding habits. The muscular Hg levels presented here suggest that consumers of fish originating from theWestern Indian Ocean should limit themselves to one Swordfish based meal per week, or one fish meal a day if they choose to eat tuna or Common Dolphinfish.

10/1351: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/behaviorofyellowfinthunnusalbacaresandbigeyetobesustunainanetworkoffishaggregatingdevicesfads> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Behavior of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) and bigeye (T-obesus) tuna in a network of fish aggregating devices (FADs)
The influence of multiple anchored fish aggregating devices (FADs) on the spatial behavior of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) and bigeye tuna (T. obesus) was investigated by equipping all thirteen FADs surrounding the island of Oahu (HI, USA) with automated sonic receivers ("listening stations") and intra-peritoneally implanting individually coded acoustic transmitters in 45 yellowfin and 12 bigeye tuna. Thus, the FAD network became a multi-element passive observatory of the residence and movement characteristics of tuna within the array. Yellowfin tuna were detected within the FAD array for up to 150 days, while bigeye tuna were only observed up to a maximum of 10 days after tagging. Only eight yellowfin tuna (out of 45) and one bigeye tuna (out of 12) visited FADs other than their FAD of release. Those nine fish tended to visit nearest neighboring FADs and, in general, spent more time at their FAD of release than at the others. Fish visiting the same FAD several times or visiting other FADs tended to stay longer in the FAD network. A majority of tagged fish exhibited some synchronicity when departing the FADs but not all tagged fish departed a FAD at the same time: small groups of tagged fish left together while others remained. We hypothesize that tuna (at an individual or collective level) consider local conditions around any given FAD to be representative of the environment on a larger scale (e.g., the entire island) and when those conditions become unfavorable the tuna move to a completely different area. Thus, while the anchored FADs surrounding the island of Oahu might concentrate fish and make them more vulnerable to fishing, at a meso-scale they might not entrain fish longer than if there were no (or very few) FADs in the area. At the existing FAD density, the 'Cyisland effect' is more likely to be responsible for the general presence of fish around the island than the FADs. We recommend further investigation of this hypothesis.

11/1352: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleexploitationofamajortunaconcentrationintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Mesoscale exploitation of a major tuna concentration in the Indian Ocean
The paper analyzes the daily catch, fishing effort and fish size data of the purse seine fleet fishing in the
western Indian Ocean in February 2005, when a major concentration of tuna occurred and was heavily exploited by
this surface fishery. This tuna concentration event occurred over a period of just 12 days, in an area of about 3500
square nautical miles located to the west of the Seychelles. This small stratum produced a total catch of 22 000 t,
corresponding to 6.5% of the total fishing mortality of all adult yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) in the entire Indian
Ocean in 2005. Sets were made mainly on free schools and the catch mainly composed of large yellowfin tuna. The
average CPUE and the average catch per set were very large, 65 t and 85 t per fishing day, respectively. This “event” took
place in a precise area where a high concentration of chlorophyll had been localized 18 days before. The subsequent
concentration of tuna schools probably arose due to the high densities of their prey feeding on this large phytoplankton
biomass. This phytoplankton bloom was observed at the edge of an anticyclonic eddy, but its origin and its high density
cannot be fully explained by available environmental data. The adult yellowfin were probably at a reproductive stage
and actively feeding on the local food chain generated by the phytoplankton bloom. Such an event is extreme, but
typical of tuna purse seine fisheries where fleets often search for such tuna patches. These events play an important role
in tuna fisheries due to the increase in fishing effort and fishing efficiency of purses seiners, both of which increase their
impact on the resource. The fine scale study of such events and their improved integration into tuna stock assessments
is recommended.

12/1353: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimateofthenonlineargrowthrateofyellowfintunathunnusalbacaresintheatlanticandintheindianoceanfromtaggingdata> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Estimate of the non-linear growth rate of yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) in the Atlantic and in the Indian Ocean from tagging data.
In the lack of a satisfactory formulation for the two-stanza growth curve of yellowfin
(Thunnus albacores), estimates of growth rate by size class can be an alternative as an input for
integrated models. From tagging data collected in the Atlantic and in the Indian Ocean, we show
however that for growth rate that does not follow a classical linear decreasing trend over size, simple
estimates of length increments by size are biased due to an averaging effect of the time spent at liberty.
We simulate length at recapture to illustrate the magnitude of the bias which can be expected
depending on the duration of the time at liberty. Our results suggest that for large time at liberty
growth rates by size are smoothed in such a way that the Von Bertalanffy model could erroneously be
considered as a good alternative. With the aim of removing this bias we used a generalized additive
model (GAM) to calculate an instantaneous growth rate by size (i.e., fixing time at liberty at 1 day at
sea). The predicted growth rates by size are lower than the apparent growth rates but are similar in
magnitude and in shape with observed growth rates for moderate times at liberty (< 90 days at sea). In
the light of our findings, we suggest that hard part reading analyses, which in general reject the twostanza
growth assumption, could have been affected by the same type of bias.

13/1354: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

14/1355: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

15/1356: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragefaunainthedietofthreelargepelagicfishlancetfishswordfishandyellowfintunainthewesternequatorialindianocean> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Forage fauna in the diet of three large pelagic fish (lancetfish, swordfish and yellowfin tuna) in the western equatorial Indian Ocean
Prey composition and resource partitioning were investigated among three large pelagic fish predators, yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox), in a poorly known oceanic area, the western Indian Ocean. The contents of 380 non-empty stomachs were analysed from specimens caught with longlines during scientific cruises carried out from 2001 to 2003. Diet data were processed by occurrence, mean proportion by number, wet weight, and mean proportion by reconstituted weight. Crustaceans, dominated by the swimming crab Charybdis smithii and the stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris, were the major food source of lancetfish. Cannibalism was also significant for that species. Yellowfin tunas preyed upon a large diversity of mesopelagic fishes, crustaceans (C. smithii and crab larvae) and cephalopods (the ommastrephid Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis). Mesopelagic fishes (Cubiceps pauciradiatus and Diretmoides parini) and cephalopods (mainly S. oualaniensis) were the main prey of swordfish. Diet overlap between swordfish and yellowfin tuna was evidenced by high Morisita-Horn index. But the feeding habits of these three predators differed by foraging depth and prey size, with swordfish feeding at deeper depths and on larger prey than the more epipelagic lancetfish and yellowfin tuna. Using these three predators as biological samplers, the present study provides novel data on micronekton fauna that is poorly documented in the western Indian Ocean: 67 families and 84 species of prey were recovered in the stomach contents, and our results indicate the presence of large resources of pelagic crustaceans that play a primary role in the epipelagic food chain.



1262) Recherche du mot : Activité de marquage (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/tagging_activity)


1263) Recherche du mot : rebord de la plate-forme (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/shelfEdge)


1264) Recherche du mot : Behavioral ecology (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/behavioral_ecology)


1265) Recherche du mot : stinker (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/macronectes_halli)


1266) Recherche du mot : Bluefin tuna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bft)
1/1357: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lessonsfromthepastinvestigatinghistoricaldatafrombluefintunafisheries> : SCORE = 2.005832
Doc : Lessons from the past : investigating historical data from bluefin tuna fisheries
In 1963, the leading fisheries targeting Atlantic bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus) in the Norwegian Sea and North Sea suddenly collapsed without any warning. Little is known about this collapse and several hypotheses have been put forward, such as changes in migratory routes, recruitment failure or eradication of a sub-population: all of these hypotheses could result from natural causes and/or from overfishing. To help explain this mysterious event, an original data set of the main bluefin tuna fisheries of the 20th century, including total catch and size composition of the catch, has been compiled and analysed. The results reveal a strong and unambiguous link between the Nordic purse seine and Spanish trap fisheries during the 1950s and 1960s. However, this link vanished during the 1970s. In addition, the North-west Atlantic and Mediterranean trap fisheries appeared also to be partially connected to the Nordic fisheries. During the 1950s and 1960s, the main migration routes of bluefin tuna were probably from the Mediterranean spawning grounds and from the West Atlantic coasts to the Norwegian coast and North Sea, which were probably a key feeding ground at that time. The analyses also lead to the conclusion that interactions between environmental, trophic and fishing processes have probably affected bluefin tuna migration patterns which would have finally caused the Nordic fisheries collapse. This retrospective analysis finally leads to an original 2013 albeit more speculative 2013 hypothesis concerning Atlantic bluefin tuna population structure, therein conjectured as an assemblage of at least three sub-populations.

2/1358: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bluefintunamanagementandconservationissues> : SCORE = 5.732142
Doc : Bluefin tuna management and conservation issues


3/1359: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/backtothefutureinvestigatinghistoricaldataofbluefintunafisheries> : SCORE = 4.094387
Doc : Back to the future: Investigating historical data of bluefin tuna fisheries


4/1360: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/atlanticbluefintunacenturiesoffluctuatingfisheries> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Atlantic bluefin tuna: 100 centuries of fluctuating fisheries
This document reviews the major changes observed in the several bluefin fisheries that have been identified in various areas of the Atlantic and Mediterranean Sea during the last 10000 years. This study first briefly reviews the multiple fisheries that have already been active in prehistorical and historical times and the beginning of 20th century, during which major industrial fishing activities have been permanently developed on bluefin, especially in the Mediterranean Sea. The analysis of the fishing activities during the last 50 years is highly focused on the catch and effort data of Japanese longliners, because this fleet has been heavily targeting bluefin and providing the best and longest statistical series available, these data covering a wide geographical area. This historical analysis of bluefin fisheries shows the large scale yearly migrations of bluefin tunas between its spawning and feeding zones. It also shows that bluefin tunas have been historically fished in a very wide range of ecosystems and that and showing a great variability in the targeted time and area strata. The paper describes and discusses this major variability of the bluefin fishing strata that remains widely unexplained. Further data mining and ad hoc research should allow to better explain this major variability of the bluefin fisheries that has been playing an indirect but probably significant role in past and present stock assessments of both Western and Eastern Atlantic stocks.

5/1361: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thekeyimportanceoftheunderlyingstockrecruitmentassumptionwhenevaluatingthepotentialofmanagementregulationsofatlanticbluefintuna> : SCORE = 1.7729216
Doc : The key importance of the underlying stock-recruitment assumption when evaluating the potential of management regulations of Atlantic bluefin tuna
The aim of this study is to investigate the implications of different stock-recruitment assumptions when examining the potential of Dubrovnik's bluefin tuna recovery plan. To do so, some Beverton and Holt relationships displaying contrasting steepness of 0.99, 0.90, 0.75 and 0.50 were applied within a simulation model. In addition to these four stock-recruitment scenarios, parental effects and stochastic variations were also considered. The main conclusion is that our ability to evaluate the consequences of the Dubrovnik agreement (as any set of management measures) relies on our capacity to predict future recruitment levels in an accurate way. Assuming a Beverton and Holt relationship with different steepness, with or without parental effects and with or without stochastic variations led to contrasting outputs, i.e. from a significant rebuilding of the simulated population within 15 years to the crash of this same simulated population. This outcome is somewhat problematic, as we are unable to properly estimate the stock-recruitment relationship for the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock. Consequently, it is crucial to clearly state recruitment assumptions when an advice is given and to consider a significant range of contrasting and realistic stock-recruitment relationships.

6/1362: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/scrstowardsclearandfirmiccatreportsonatlanticbluefintunastocksanopenlettertothebluefingroupandtothescrs> : SCORE = 1.7729216
Doc : SCRS 2006: Towards clear and firm ICCAT reports on Atlantic bluefin tuna stocks? An open letter to the bluefin group and to the SCRS
This paper is based on the fact that the recent SCRS reports on bluefin tuna are not very clear
to show the gravity of the ICCAT problems in its statistics, research and assessment for this
species. The Atlantic bluefin population is now probably facing in the short or medium terms a
high risk of potentially irreversible over-fishing. However this severe risk is not clearly visible
in the recent SCRS analysis because of the difficulties to run a realistic stock assessment on
these stocks when most of the basic data are missing. This paper makes a recommendation that
SCRS should write its bluefin report using a non standard specific format using well selected
indicators and not its traditional VPA. This SCRS report should also show the serious
conservation risks presently faced by bluefin in the Atlantic. This paper also reaches conclusion
that a precautionary approach should be developed by SCRS in order to make firm
management recommendations that are need to conserve bluefin tuna.

7/1363: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ayearclasscurveanalysistoestimatemortalityofatlanticbluefintunacaughtbythenorwegianfisheryfromto> : SCORE = 2.005832
Doc : A year-class curve analysis to estimate mortality of Atlantic bluefin tuna caught by the Norwegian fishery from 1956 to 1979
At the ICCAT symposium on bluefin tuna that held in Santander in April 2008, Tangen et al.(2009) presented a first quantification of the fishing effort deployed by the Norwegian fishery targeting bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea. Using a year-class curve analysis on the Norwegian CPUE, this document presents the first estimates of mortality rates of Atlantic bluefin tuna that migrated north from the mid-1950s to the late 1970s. The results indicate that bluefin tuna would have experienced a total mortality rate (Z) of 0.2 to 0.4 yr-1 (i.e. F at around 0.3 yr-1) during the late 1950s, 0.2 yr-1 during the 1960s and 0.1 yr-1 afterwards (assuming M=0.1 yr-1). These results appear to be rather robust and consistent with the VPA estimates from the 1970s and early 1980s, albeit slightly higher. The fishing mortality rates experienced by bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea during the period 1956-1979 were thus significant (so that local overfishing may have occurred, especially during the 1950s), but lower than F estimated by year-class curve analysis in recent years (i.e. 1992-2004). This comparison between two distant periods of time during which BFT was significantly (highly) exploited tend to confirm, with new pieces of information, the pessimistic conclusions of the 2006 stock assessment.

8/1364: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evaluationoftheperformanceandrobustnessofvpabasedstockassessmentandmsybasedmanagementstrategytoprocesserrortheatlanticbluefintunacasestudy> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Evaluation of the performance and robustness of VPA-based stock assessment and MSY-based management strategy to process error : The Atlantic bluefin tuna case study
An integrative simulation framework was built to evaluate the consequences of variability attributable to changes in carrying capacity or the stock's migration pattern of Atlantic bluefin tuna on the ICCAT stock assessment and management procedures. We also evaluated the performances of stock assessment methods with respect to their ability to provide good estimates of MSY, FMSY and BMSY and tested the robustness of the current ICCAT management strategy to uncertainty about the true dynamics and historical exploitation levels. The results clearly indicate that the VPA performances were seriously impaired if the long-term variations in catches are due to changes in migration/availability. There is further considerable confounding between the underlying dynamics and increasing effort that makes it difficult to draw any inference about the actual dynamics based on commercial catch data. Reference points based on F (e.g., F0.1) were less biased and more precise than those based on yield and/or SSB and were also more robust to uncertainty about the true dynamics than absolute values of F and SSB. However, F0.1 cannot indicate past and current levels of exploitation relative to FMSY when there is uncertainty about the dynamics. Therefore, while reference points such as F0.1 may be good proxies for FMSY, the MSY concept may be difficult to make operational. A size limit strategy generates greater yields than the more sophisticated F0.1, but lower SSB. However, the performances of both strategies were strongly dependent on the period over which they are implemented relative to the intrinsic cycle of the population. We finally stressed that the performances and robustness of management strategies also depend on concrete objectives, such as fleet composition, gear selectivity and economic constraints.

9/1365: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anattempttoevaluatetherecentmanagementregulationsoftheeastatlanticandmediterraneanbluefintunastockthroughasimplesimulationmodel> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : An attempt to evaluate the recent management regulations of the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock through a simple simulation model
This manuscript proposes a simple simulation model to investigate the implications to the resources of the
recent management regulations adopted for the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock. If
perfectly implemented, the new regulations on minimum size and closed fishing areas mostly lead to a
change in the selectivity pattern which moves towards older fish, so decreasing growth-overfishing. The
potential sustainable yields therefore considerably increase (almost double in comparison to those that
would be obtained without the new regulations) while the SSB can rapidly reach 20% of the virgin SSB. An
error of 20% in the implementation of these new regulations affects their efficiencies and does not seem to
allow the rebuilding of the SSB at a safe level. A significant increase in fishing mortality on older fish (ages
5+), due to the partial redeployment of the fisheries, affect even more strongly the rebuilding of the SSB. In
conclusion, the new regulations may appear sufficient to rebuild the SSB to a level > 20% of the virgin SSB,
if (and only if) they are perfectly implemented and don't generate any increase in the fishing effort on older
fish. In other words, control over all the fisheries that target BFT in the East Atlantic and the Mediterranean
is probably the key of the edifice.

10/1366: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysingmultipletimeseriesandextendingsignificancetestinginwaveletanalysis> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Analysing multiple time series and extending significance testing in wavelet analysis
In nature, non-stationarity is rather typical, but the number of statistical tools allowing for non-stationarity remains rather limited. Wavelet analysis is such a tool allowing for non-stationarity but the lack of an appropriate test for statistical inference as well as the difficulty to deal with multiple time series are 2 important shortcomings that limits its use in ecology. We present 2 approaches to deal with these shortcomings. First, we used 1/f beta models to test cycles in the wavelet spectrum against a null hypothesis that takes into account the highly autocorrelated nature of ecological time series. To illustrate the approach, we investigated the fluctuations in bluefin tuna trap catches with a set of different null models. The 1/f beta models approach proved to be the most consistent to discriminate significant cycles. Second, we used the maximum covariance analysis to compare, in a quantitative way, the time-frequency patterns (i.e. the wavelet spectra) of numerous time series. This approach built cluster trees that grouped the wavelet spectra according to their time-frequency patterns. Controlled signals and time series of sea surface temperature (SST) in the Mediterranean Sea were used to test the ability and power of this approach. The results were satisfactory and clusters on the SST time series displayed a hierarchical division of the Mediterranean into a few homogeneous areas that are known to display different hydrological and oceanic patterns. We discuss the limits and potentialities of these methods to study the associations between ecological and environmental fluctuations.



1267) Recherche du mot : CAP VERT (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_CPV)


1268) Recherche du mot : Pêcherie (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/fishery)
1/1367: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lescrevettescotieresdemadagascarbiologieexploitationgestion> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Les crevettes côtières de Madagascar: Biologie, exploitation, gestion
Depuis les années 1960, les crevettes côtières de Madagascar font l'objet d'une intense exploitation. Elles représentent l'une des principales ressources de devises du pays et constituent à ce titre un enjeu convoité par les investisseurs, mais aussi par les pêcheurs traditionnels. Du fait de l'augmentation de la pression de pêche, la pêcherie malgache se trouve confrontée, depuis le milieu des années 1990, à des difficultés économiques croissantes, à la stagnation des débarquements, à la baisse des rendements et de la taille moyenne des captures.

Avec pour objectif d'actualiser les connaissances scientifiques sur la ressource et d'en améliorer la gestion et l'exploitation, mais également pour définir une politique d'aménagement des aires de production, le Programme national de recherche crevettière (PNRC) a été lancé en 1997 avec le soutien financier de l'Agence française de développement et l'expertise scientifique de l'Institut de recherche pour le développement (IRD).

2/1368: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statitiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileependantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Statitiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée pendant la période 1991-2006
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of the European and similar baitboat and
purse seine fleets7 from 1991 to 2006. The data in this document for 1991 to 2006 have been revised and
completed for 2005-2006. The species breakdown of the catches in 2006 is provisional and should be
subject to verification. The document gives information on the characteristics of the fleets (fishing type
by category, in number), fishing effort by type and size category of the vessels, the number of 1o areas
visited by the fleet per year during the period, the catches, standardized effort and the CPUEs by
species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as well as the catches by size classes per quarter for
each of the three species and for the two gears, and the average individual weights by species (by
quarter and by gear). Fishing maps are also provided indicating the deployment of the fleet in the
eastern Atlantic as well as the time-area breakdown of the catches of the European and similar purse
seiners in 2006, compared to the average of 2001-2005.

3/1369: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/atelieramenagementdelapecheriecrevettiere> : SCORE = 2.4566321
Doc : Atelier : Aménagement de la Pêcherie Crevettière


4/1370: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethonierefrancaisedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière française durant la période 1991- 2006
This document presents a statistical summary of the fleet activity of the French baitboats and purse
seiners from 1991 to 2006. The historical data for the FIS6 fleet from 1969 to 1990 was described in a
previous document (Diouf et Fonteneau 1997). The data from that document have been revised and
completed for 2006. The document gives information on the fleet characteristics (fishing type by
category, in number), fishing effort by type and size category of the vessels, the number of 1o areas
visited by the fleet per year during the period, the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for
the baitboats and purse seiners, as well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three
species and for the two gears, and the average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear).
The species breakdown of the catches in 2006 is provisional and should be subject to verification. Some
fishing maps area also presented indicating the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic, as well as the
time-area breakdown of the French baitboat and purse seine catches in 2006, as compared to the
average of 2001-2005.

5/1371: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethonierefisdurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière FIS durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary of FIS6 baitboat and purse seine fleet activities
from 1991 to 2004. The historical data from 1969 to 1990 were described in a previous
document (Diouf and Fonteneau 1997). The data collected from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2004. The document provides indications regarding fleet
characteristics (type of gear by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category of
the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for baitboats and purse seiners, as well as
the catches by different size classes by quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, and the average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic, as well as the time-area
breakdown of French purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average situation of 1999-
2004.

6/1372: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of European and assimilated6
baitboat and purse seine fleets from 1991 to 2004. The data from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2003. The document provides information regarding fleet
characteristics (type of fishing by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category
of the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as
well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, as well as average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic as well as the time-area
breakdown of European and assimilated purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average
situation of 1999-2003.

7/1373: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of European and assimilated6
baitboat and purse seine fleets from 1991 to 2004. The data from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2003. The document provides information regarding fleet
characteristics (type of fishing by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category
of the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as
well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, as well as average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic as well as the time-area
breakdown of European and assimilated purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average
situation of 1999-2003.



1269) Recherche du mot : Decapterus macrosoma (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/decapterus_macrosoma)


1270) Recherche du mot : Bacoreta oriental (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/euthynnus_affinis)


1271) Recherche du mot : Und Squids (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/und_squids)


1272) Recherche du mot : Manta birostris (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/manta_birostris)


1273) Recherche du mot : Balaou atlantique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberesox_saurus)


1274) Recherche du mot : spur (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/spur)


1275) Recherche du mot : Modeling (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/modeling)
1/1374: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/workshoponmappingandgeostatisticalmethodsforfisheriesstockassessment> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Workshop on Mapping and Geostatistical Methods for Fisheries Stock Assessment
The NAFO Scientific Council Special Session of September 2003 was the Workshop on Mapping and Geostatistical Methods for Fisheries Stock Assessment. The objective of the workshop was to provide participants with the basic understanding of geostatistical conceptes and methods, and provide tools to apply this knowledge to fisheries stock assessments. The instructors introduced freeware mapping and geostatistical software. Two sets of data were used for the lessons and demonstrations: the Canadian spring bottom trawl survey data from 1996 to 2002, and information from the yellowtail flounder commercial fishery on the Grand Bank from 1996 to 2002. The visualization, analysis and modeling of spatial data using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) were presented (e.g. Ocean Data View (ODV freeware), SPAN (Spatial Analysis System) and ACON (A CONtouring package). Surface (map) generating techniques were demonstrated using the various software packges. Geostatistical concepts and methods related to kriging, and methods for analyses using basics of the "R" software package were described.

2/1375: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingapproachtoregimeshiftsofprimaryproductioninshallowcoastalecosystems> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Modeling approach to regime shifts of primary production in shallow coastal ecosystems
Pristine coastal shallow systems are usually dominated by extensive meadows of seagrass species, which are assumed to take advantage of nutrient supply from sediment. An increasing nutrient input is thought to favour phytoplankton, epiphytic microalgae, aswell as opportunistic ephemeral macroalgae that coexist with seagrasses. The primary cause of shifts and succession in the macrophyte community is the increase of nutrient load to water; however, temperature plays also an important role. A competition model between rooted seagrass (Zostera marina), macroalgae (Ulva sp.), and phytoplankton has been developed to analyse the succession of primary producer communities in these systems. Successions of dominance states, with different resilience ;characteristics, are found when modifying the input of nutrients and the seasonal temperature and light intensity forcing.
© 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

3/1376: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingperformanceandinformationexchangebetweenfishingvesselswithartificialneuralnetworks> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Modeling performance and information exchange between fishing vessels with artificial neural networks
A fishery is simulated in which 20 artificial vessels learn to make decisions through an artificial neural network in order to search for schools of fish among the available fishing grounds. Three scenarios with different degrees of variability, including uncertainty in the searching process, are considered. The simulation model accounts for the main features commonly observed in a purse seine tuna fishery in a time and a space scale. Vessel strategies are chosen by the artificial neural network, on the basis of the following decision criteria: information concerning time searching in a specific area, previous performance in this area, knowledge of the quality of surrounding fishing grounds, presence of other vessels fishing actively and trip length. An analysis of the effects of sharing information between vessels is done and this was compared to individual artificial fishing vessels. In general, a group of fishing vessels show higher performance than individual vessels. A convex performance comparison curve for several group sizes is found in all scenarios considered. The optimum group size differs according to the variability of the artificial world. At bigger group sizes performance decreases, probably due to competition and depletion effects of some fishing grounds.

4/1377: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingthecombinedeffectofnutrientsandpyreneontheplanktonpopulationvalidationusingmesocosmexperimentdataandscenarioanalysis> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Modeling the combined effect of nutrients and pyrene on the plankton population: Validation using mesocosm experiment data and scenario analysis
A newintegrated model that includes a hydrodynamic model coupled with a contaminant fate and effect sub-model and an ecological sub-model is presented and validated using data from mesocosm experiments. The experiments were carried out in the Isefjord (Denmark) and include the combined effects of nutrients and pyrene addition on the lower trophic levels of bacteria, zooplankton and phytoplankton. The model was able to correctly represent the main dynamics observed in the mesocosms during the 11 days of the experiment and thereby confirmed that it is possible to represent short-term changes in the system with a simplified food-web model on a small spatial and temporal scale. Finally, the validated model was used to carry out a scenario analysis to investigate the effects of a contaminant pulse at different pyrene concentrations and different release timings. Results showed that the ecosystem's vulnerability to a pyrene pulse depends on the initial condition of the system. Stronger biomass reduction was observed when the pulse was released during the zooplankton bloom. Conversely, when the pulse was added at low biomass and before the bloom, the system showed a tendency to behave non-linearly.
© 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

5/1378: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelbasedassessmentofpersistenceinproposedmarineprotectedareadesigns> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Model-based assessment of persistence  in proposed marine protected area designs
Assessment of marine protected areas (MPAs) requires the ability to quantify
the effects of proposed MPA size and placement, habitat distribution, larval dispersal, and
fishing on the persistence of protected populations. Here we describe a model-based approach
to assessment of the contribution of a network of marine protected areas to the persistence of
populations with a sedentary adult phase and a dispersing larval phase. The model integrates
the effects of a patchy spatial distribution of habitat, the spatial scale of larval dispersal, and
the level of fishing outside of reserves into a calculation of the spatial distribution of
equilibrium settlement. We use the amount of coastline predicted to have equilibrium
settlement rates that saturate post-settlement habitat as a response variable for the assessment
and comparison of MPA network designs. We apply this model to a set of recently proposed
MPA networks for the central coast of California, USA. Results show that the area of habitat
set aside is a good predictor of the area over which population levels will be high for shortdistance
dispersers. However, persistence of longer distance dispersers depends critically on
the spatial distribution of habitat and reserves, ranging from not persistent anywhere to
persistent over a greater area than that set aside in reserves. These results depend on the
mechanisms of persistence, with self-replacement supporting short-distance dispersers and
network effects supporting long-distance dispersers. Persistence also depends critically on
fishery status outside the MPAs, as well as how fishing effort is redistributed after MPA
implementation. This assessment method provides important benchmarks, as well as a
transparent modeling approach, for improving initial MPA configurations that may result
from less-comprehensive rule- or habitat-based methods of designing MPAs.

6/1379: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingtheprimaryandsecondaryproductionsofthesouthernbenguelaupwellingsystemacomparativestudythroughtwobiogeochemicalmodelsglobalbiogeochem> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Modeling the primary and secondary productions of the southern Benguela upwelling system: A comparative study through two biogeochemical models, Global Biogeochem
A three-dimensional primitive equation model, the Regional Ocean Modeling Systems (ROMS), coupled to two biogeochemical configurations (NPZD and N2P2Z2D2) was used to study the dynamics of the first trophic levels of the pelagic food web in the southern Benguela upwelling system. The domain extends from the Agulhas Bank bordered by the Agulhas Current to 27°S on the west coast of South Africa. The circulation is driven by monthly climatologies of atmospheric forcing fields. The NPZD ecosystem model consists of four state variables: nutrient (nitrate), phytoplankton, zooplankton and detritus. In the N2P2Z2D2 model, ammonium has been added and the three other variables have been divided into small and large organisms or detritus. Both models are able to reproduce the spatio-temporal phytoplankton distribution. Along the west coast, chlorophyll concentrations maxima are associated to surface waters. Westward dominating winds generate the lowest chlorophyll concentrations encountered in winter. The small phytoplankton organisms simulated by the N2P2Z2D2 model are responsible for a weaker chlorophyll inshore/offshore gradient, in closer agreement with observations. Transitions from a regime dominated by new production (high f ratio) to one dominated by regenerated production (low f ratio) happen to be abrupt, underlying the constant competition between small and large organisms with regard to upwelling induced nutrient inputs. On the Agulhas Bank, the summer enrichment is associated with subsurface maxima, while in winter, mixing by storms results in a homogeneous phytoplankton distribution in the water column. Regenerated production plays an important role in maintaining the total phytoplankton growth. Zooplankton biomass reflects the overall patterns of chlorophyll a concentrations with differences between the west coast and the Agulhas Bank, consistent with data, and its distribution exhibits a clear seasonal contrast. The seasonality of small and large zooplankton in the N2P2Z2D2 model is quite distinct, which allows, from the Agulhas Bank to St. Helena Bay, a food continuum for fish larvae. This was not achieved with the simpler NPZD model, emphasizing the importance of representing the appropriate level of complexity to characterize food availability for higher trophic levels.

7/1380: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/areviewofanalyticalapproachestoinvestigateseabirdenvironmentinteractions> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : A review of analytical approaches to investigate seabird-environment interactions
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution, and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In this paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour, and their environment in order to assess current trends, weaknesses, and future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated; and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where in most cases no behavioral information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. A vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird-environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, meso-scale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modeling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multi-scale, and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

8/1381: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anindividualbasedmodelstudyofanchovyearlylifehistoryinthenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystem> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : An individual-based model study of anchovy early life history in the northern Humboldt Current system
We used an individual-based model of anchovy (Engraulis ringens) early life history coupled with hydrodynamic outputs from the regional oceanic modeling system (ROMS) to investigate the factors driving variability in egg and larval survival rates in the northern Humboldt upwelling region off Peru. Individuals were released within a coastal area and followed for a period of 30 days. Those that were still in the coastal area at that time were considered as retained. We investigated the spatial and temporal variability in the release locations of the individuals retained, and compared these to observed egg concentration patterns reconstructed from a 40-year period of monitoring. A first set of simulations using passive particles to represent anchovy eggs and larvae revealed a large sensitivity of the results to the initial vertical distribution of particles. We then conducted two additional sets of simulations that included the effect of egg buoyancy, larval vertical swimming behavior and lethal temperature. We obtained (1) maximal coastal retention close to the surface in winter and in deeper layers in summer, (2) a large influence of egg buoyancy and of larval vertical behavior on coastal retention in all seasons, (3) a partial match between dates and locations of enhanced retention and observed egg concentration patterns and (4) a low effect of lethal temperature on survival except when associated with high egg density. The model suggests that an optimal temporal spawning pattern for maximizing coastal retention would have two maximums, the most significant in austral winter and the second in summer. This pattern agrees roughly with observed spawning seasonality, but with temporal discrepancy of about two months in the peaks of both series. Spatially, we obtained higher retention from 10 S to 20 S, whereas the observed maximum egg concentration was located between 6°S and 14°S. Among the three sets of simulations, the one taking into account larval vertical swimming behavior lead to the best match with the data.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

9/1382: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/polychlorinatedbiphenylspcbsintheatmosphereofsubalpinenorthernitaly> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in the atmosphere of sub-alpine northern Italy
The main objective of this work was to assess the atmospheric concentrations and seasonal variations of selected POPs in a sub-alpine location where few data are available. A monitoring and research station was set up at the JRC Ispra EMEP site (Italy).We present and discuss a one-year data set (2005–2006) on PCB air concentrations. Σ 7PCBs monthly averaged concentration varied from 31 to 76 pgm-3. Concentrations in the gas phase (21–72 pgm-3) were higher than those in the particulate phase (3–10pgm-3). Advection of air masses and re-volatilization from local sources seem to play a dominant role as drivers of PCB atmospheric concentrations in the area. Indications of seasonal variation affecting PCB congener patterns and the gas/particulate partitioning were found. Modeling calculations suggest a predominant importance of the wet deposition in this region (1 µgm-2 yr-1 Σ7PCBs yearly total wet deposition flux; 650–2400 pg L-1 rainwater concentrations).
©2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

10/1383: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingforecastingandscenariosincomparableupwellingecosystemscaliforniacanaryandhumboldt> : SCORE = 0.53187644
Doc : Modelling, forecasting and scenarios in comparable upwelling ecosystems: California, Canary and Humboldt
The three eastern boundary ecosystems comparable to the Benguela ecosystem (BCE)
display differences and commonalities. The California (CalCE) and Humboldt Current
(HCE) ecosystems are continuous topographically, whereas the Canary Current
ecosystem (CanCE) is interrupted by the Gulf of Cadiz and the Canaries archipelago.
All have similar regimes of equatorward flow over shelf and slope associated with
upwelling and a subsurface poleward flow over the slope, though in the HCE multiple
flows and counter-flows appear offshore. All systems exhibit year round upwelling in
their centre and seasonal upwelling at their extremes as the trade wind systems that
drive them migrate north and south, though the HCE is strongly skewed toward the
equator. All systems vary on scales from the event or synoptic scale of a few days,
through seasonal, to inter-decadal and long term. Productivity of each system follows
the upwelling cycle, though intra-regional variations in nutrient content and forcing
cause significant variability within regions. The CanCE is relatively unproductive
compared to the CalCE and HCE as a result of differences in large scale circulation
between the Pacific and Atlantic. The latter two systems are dominated by El Niño -
Southern Oscillation (ENSO) variability on a scale of 4-7 years. Physical modeling
with the Princeton Ocean Model and the Regional Oceanic Modeling System has
advanced recently to the stage of reproducing realistic mesoscale features and energy
levels with climatic wind forcing. Operational forecasting by these models with
assimilation of sea surface temperature and other data is successfully implemented in
CalCE. On longer time scales, the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory model is able
to hindcast El Niño variability over the long term up to 2 years in advance. Empirical
ecological models in all three systems have attempted prediction of permissible catch
level (fractional Maximum Sustainable Yield), recruitment, catches or onset of
migration with lack of continued success, partly because discontinuous or inadequate
observations hamper model implementation and assessment. Moreover, empirical
models tuned to particular environments fail when fundamental regime shifts occur.
One of the most successful approaches is that of intensive monitoring of catch and
188 P. Fréon
environmental parameters linked to an informal Operational Management Procedure
(OMP) to inform fisheries management off Peru. This OMP contributed to
preservation of anchovy stock during the 1997-8 El Niño but remains to be formalized
or tested under varying conditions. Prediction on time scales of global warming are
uncertain because physical climate models still disagree on whether upwelling will
intensify or weaken. Possible scenarios on decadal scale based on warming or cooling
of waters in the Eastern Boundary Current systems can be proffered, albeit with little
confidence at present. Future approaches for all systems, including the BCE, will in
the long run likely combine coupled atmospheric/ocean models with biological process
models. Judicious application of purely statistical modeling based on inherent time
series properties will assist, though such techniques are unable to cope with regime
shifts.

11/1384: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemmodellingapproachesforsouthafricanfisheriesmanagement> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Ecosystem modelling approaches for South African fisheries management
A variety of ecosystem modeling approaches is available, some of which have
been successfully applied to the southern Benguela ecosystem. How these models could be
useful for fisheries management and how they might assist in reconciling fisheries with
conservation, has not always been clear. At the end of 2002, a workshop was held to introduce
the concept of an ecosystem approach to fisheries (EAF) management to South African scientists
and managers. It was recommended that an EAF be implemented as an incremental process
with immediate effect in South Africa. An ecosystem modeling perspective should be incorporated
into existing single species management recommendations by using ecosystem models to test
the implications of these recommendations. This paper describes the rich variety of ecosystem
models that are being applied to the southern Benguela. Focusing on the South African small
pelagic fisheries, it documents how these models are assisting the current implementation of an
EAF in the southern Benguela and suggests how future management and conservation issues
should be addressed in South African fisheries.

12/1385: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemmodelingapproachesforsouthafricanfisheriesmanagement> : SCORE = 1.0637529
Doc : Ecosystem Modeling Approaches for South African Fisheries Management
A variety of ecosystem modeling approaches is available, some of which have been successfully applied to the southern Benguela ecosystem. How these models could be useful for fisheries management and how they might assist in reconciling fisheries with conservation, has not always been clear. At the end of 2002, a workshop was held to introduce the concept of an ecosystem approach to fisheries (EAF) management to South African scientists and managers. It was recommended that an EAF be implemented as an incremental process with immediate effect in South Africa. An ecosystem modeling perspective should be incorporated into existing single species management recommendations by using ecosystem models to test the implications of these recommendations. This paper describes the rich variety of ecosystem models that are being applied to the southern Benguela. Focusing on the South African small pelagic fisheries, it documents how these models are assisting the current implementation of an EAF in the southern Benguela and suggests how future management and conservation issues should be addressed in South African fisheries.

13/1386: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anchovyearlylifeinthenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystemanindividualbasedmodelstudy> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Anchovy early life in the northern Humboldt Current system: an individual-based model study
We used an individual-based model of anchovy (Engraulis ringens) early life history coupled with hydrodynamic outputs from the regional oceanic modeling system (ROMS) to investigate the factors driving variability in egg and larval survival rates in the northern Humboldt upwelling region off Peru. Individuals were released within a coastal area and followed for a period of 30 days. Those that were still in the coastal area at that time were considered as retained. We investigated the spatial and temporal variability in the release locations of the individuals retained, and compared these to observed egg concentration patterns reconstructed from a 40-year period of monitoring. A first set of simulations using passive particles to represent anchovy eggs and larvae revealed a large sensitivity of the results to the initial vertical distribution of particles. We then conducted two additional sets of simulations that included the effect of egg buoyancy, larval vertical swimming behavior and lethal temperature. We obtained (1) maximal coastal retention close to the surface in winter and in deeper layers in summer, (2) a large influence of egg buoyancy and of larval vertical behavior on coastal retention in all seasons, (3) a partial match between dates and locations of enhanced retention and observed egg concentration patterns and (4) a low effect of lethal temperature on survival except when associated with high egg density. The model suggests that an optimal temporal spawning pattern for maximizing coastal retention would have two maximums, the most significant in austral winter and the second in summer. This pattern agrees roughly with observed spawning seasonality, but with temporal discrepancy of about two months in the peaks of both series. Spatially, we obtained higher retention from 10 S to 20 S, whereas the observed maximum egg concentration was located between 6°S and 14°S. Among the three sets of simulations, the one taking into account larval vertical swimming behavior lead to the best match with the data.

14/1387: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystempartiielucidatingecosystemdynamicsfromtowithafocusontheimpactofenso> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part II: Elucidating ecosystem dynamics from 1995 to 2004 with a focus on the impact of ENSO
The Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem is one of the most productive in the world in terms of fish production. Its location near to the equator permits strong upwelling under relatively low winds, thus creating optimal conditions for the development of plankton communities. These communities ultimately support abundant populations of grazing fish such as the Peruvian anchoveta, Engraulis ringens. The ecosystem is also subject to strong inter-annual environmental variability associated with the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO), which has major effects on nutrient structure, primary production, and higher trophic levels. Here our objective is to model the contributions of several external drivers (i.e. reconstructed phytoplankton changes, fish immigration, and fishing rate) and internal control mechanisms (i.e. predator-prey) to ecosystem dynamics over an ENSO cycle. Steady-state models and timeseries data from the Instituto del Mar del Perú (IMARPE) from 1995 to 2004 provide the base data for simulations conducted with the program Ecopath with Ecosim. In simulations all three external drivers contribute to ecosystem dynamics. Changes in phytoplankton quantity and composition (i.e. contribution of diatoms and dino- and silicoflagellates), as affected by upwelling intensity, were important in dynamics of the El Niño of 1997–98 and the subsequent 3 years. The expansion and immigration of mesopelagic fish populations during El Niño was important for dynamics in following years. Fishing rate changes were the most important of the three external drivers tested, helping to explain observed dynamics throughout the modeled period, and particularly during the post-El Niño period. Internal control settings show a mix of predator–prey control settings; however a ‘‘wasp-waist” control of the ecosystem by small pelagic fish is not supported.
© 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved

15/1388: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/viabilitymodeloftrophicinteractionsinmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Viability model of trophic interactions in marine ecosystems
An attempt to use viability models for studying marine ecosystems is proposed as a possible alternative to classical ecosystem modeling. Viability models do not consider optimal solutions but instead define all possible evolutions of a dynamical system under given constraints. Applied to marine ecosystems, a viability model is formulated based on the trophic coefficients of a mass-balanced model. This requires relatively few assumptions about the processes involved and can integrate uncertainty associated with the required estimates of input parameters. An iterative algorithm is proposed to calculate the viability kernel, i.e., the envelope of all viable trajectories of the ecosystem. An application to the Benguela ecosystem is presented, considering interactions between detritus, phytoplankton, zooplankton, pelagicfis h, demersal fish and fisheries. Results show how a viability kernel could be used to better define the healthy states of a marine ecosystem, by defining what states should be avoided. The paper discusses how viability models of trophic interactions could help to define a new ecosystem-based indicator for fisheries management. It then discusses how this approach can potentially contribute to a paradigm shift that is emerging in the management of renewable resources.

16/1389: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingfishpopulationmovementsfromanindividualbasedrepresentationtoanadvectiondiffusionequation> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Modeling fish population movements: From an individual-based representation to an advection–diffusion equation
In this paper, we address the problem of modeling fish population movements. We first consider a description of movements at the level of individuals. An individual-based model is formulated as a biased random walk model in which the velocity of each fish has both a deterministic and a stochastic component. These components are function of a habitat suitability index, h, and its spatial gradient backward differenceh. We derive an advection–diffusion partial differential equation (PDE) which approximates this individual-based model (IBM). The approximation process enables us to obtain a mechanistic representation of the advection and diffusion coefficients which improves the heuristic approaches of former studies. Advection and diffusion are linked and exhibit antagonistic behaviors: strong advection goes with weak diffusion leading to a directed movement of fish. On the contrary weak advection goes with strong diffusion corresponding to a searching behavior. Simulations are conducted for both models which are compared by computing spatial statistics. It is shown that the PDE model is a good approximation to the IBM.

17/1390: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicmodelingofthenorthernhumboldtcurrentecosystemparticomparingtrophiclinkagesunderlaninaandelninoconditions> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Trophic modeling of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem, Part I: Comparing trophic linkages under La Niña and El Niño conditions
The El Niño of 1997–98 was one of the strongest warming events of the past century; among many other effects, it impacted phytoplankton along the Peruvian coast by changing species composition and reducing biomass. While responses of the main fish resources to this natural perturbation are relatively well known, understanding the ecosystem response as a whole requires an ecotrophic multispecies approach. In this work, we construct trophic models of the Northern Humboldt Current Ecosystem (NHCE) and compare the La Niña (LN) years in 1995–96 with the El Niño (EN) years in 1997–98. The model area extends from 4°S–16°S and to 60 nm from the coast. The model consists of 32 functional groups of organisms and differs from previous trophic models of the Peruvian system through: (i) division of plankton into size classes to account for EN-associated changes and feeding preferences of small pelagic fish, (ii) increased division of demersal groups and separation of life history stages of hake, (iii) inclusion of mesopelagic fish, and (iv) incorporation of the jumbo squid (Dosidicus gigas), which became abundant following EN. Results show that EN reduced the size and organization of energy flows of the NHCE, but the overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators, detritus and export) of the ecosystem was maintained. The reduction of diatom biomass during EN forced omnivorous planktivorous fish to switch to a more zooplankton-dominated diet, raising their trophic level. Consequently, in the EN model the trophic level increased for several predatory groups (mackerel, other large pelagics, sea birds, pinnipeds) and for fishery catch. A high modeled biomass of macrozooplankton was needed to balance the consumption by planktivores, especially during EN condition when observed diatoms biomass diminished dramatically. Despite overall lower planktivorous fish catches, the higher primary production required-to-catch ratio implied a stronger ecological impact of the fishery and stresses the need for precautionary management of fisheries during and after EN. During EN energetic indicators such as the lower primary production/total biomass ratio suggest a more energetically efficient ecosystem, while reduced network indicators such as the cycling index and relative ascendency indicate of a less organized state of the ecosystem. Compared to previous trophic models of the NHCE we observed: (i) a shrinking of ecosystem size in term of energy flows, (ii) slight changes in overall functioning (proportion of energy flows used for respiration, consumption by predators and detritus), and (iii) the use of alternate pathways leading to a higher ecological impact of the fishery for planktivorous fish.

18/1391: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/aparsimoniousapproachtomodelinganimalmovementdata> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : A parsimonious approach to modeling animal movement data
Animal tracking is a growing field in ecology and previous work has shown that simple speed filtering of tracking data is not sufficient and that improvement of tracking location estimates are possible. To date, this has required methods that are complicated and often time-consuming (state-space models), resulting in limited application of this technique and the potential for analysis errors due to poor understanding of the fundamental framework behind the approach. We describe and test an alternative and intuitive approach consisting of bootstrapping random walks biased by forward particles. The model uses recorded data accuracy estimates, and can assimilate other sources of data such as sea-surface temperature, bathymetry and/or physical boundaries. We tested our model using ARGOS and geolocation tracks of elephant seals that also carried GPS tags in addition to PTTs, enabling true validation. Among pinnipeds, elephant seals are extreme divers that spend little time at the surface, which considerably impact the quality of both ARGOS and light-based geolocation tracks. Despite such low overall quality tracks, our model provided location estimates within 4.0, 5.5 and 12.0 km of true location 50% of the time, and within 9, 10.5 and 20.0 km 90% of the time, for above, equal or below average elephant seal ARGOS track qualities, respectively. With geolocation data, 50% of errors were less than 104.8 km (<0.94°), and 90% were less than 199.8 km (<1.80°). Larger errors were due to lack of sea-surface temperature gradients. In addition we show that our model is flexible enough to solve the obstacle avoidance problem by assimilating high resolution coastline data. This reduced the number of invalid on-land location by almost an order of magnitude. The method is intuitive, flexible and efficient, promising extensive utilization in future research.

19/1392: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/alongshoreadvectionandmarinereservesconsequencesformodelingandmanagement> : SCORE = 2.4566321
Doc : Alongshore advection and marine reserves: consequences for modeling and management


20/1393: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/westanortherncaliforniastudyoftheroleofwinddriventransportintheproductivityofcoastalplanktoncommunities> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : WEST: A northern California study of the role of wind-driven transport in the productivity of coastal plankton communities
The ‶Wind Events and Shelf Transport'' (WEST) program was an interdisciplinary study of coastal upwelling off northern California in 2000-03. WEST was comprised of modeling and field observations. The primary goal of WEST was to better describe and understand the competing influences of wind forcing on planktonic productivity in coastal waters. While increased upwelling-favorable winds lead to increased nutrient supply, they also result in reduced light exposure due to deeper surface mixed layers and increased advective loss of plankton from coastal waters. The key to understanding high levels of productivity, amidst these competing responses to wind forcing, is the temporal and spatial structure of upwelling. Temporal fluctuations and spatial patterns allow strong upwelling that favors nutrient delivery to be juxtaposed with less energetic conditions that favor stratification and plankton blooms. Observations of winds, ocean circulation, nutrients, phytoplankton and zooplankton off Bodega Bay and Point Reyes (38 degrees N) were combined with model studies of winds, circulation and productivity. This overview of the WEST program provides an introduction to the WEST special issue of Deep-Sea Research, including the motivation for WEST, a summary of study components, an integrative synthesis of major research results to-date, and background on conditions during field studies in May-June 2001 (the upwelling period on which this special issue is focused). (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All. rights reserved.

21/1394: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingenvironmentaleffectsonthesizestructuredenergyflowthroughmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Modeling environmental effects on the size-structured energy flow through marine ecosystems.
This paper presents an original size-structured mathematical model of the energy flow through marine ecosystems, based on established ecological and physiological processes and mass conservation principles. The model is based on a nonlocal partial differential equation which represents the transfer of energy in both time and body weight (size) in marine ecosystems. The processes taken into account include size-based opportunistic trophic interactions, competition for food, allocation of energy between growth and reproduction, somatic and maturity maintenance, predatory and starvation mortality. All the physiological rates are temperature-dependent. The physiological bases of the model are derived from the dynamic energy budget theory. The model outputs the dynamic size-spectrum of marine ecosystems in term of energy content per weight class as well as many other size-dependent diagnostic variables such as growth rate, egg production or predation mortality.

In stable environmental conditions and using a reference set of parameters derived from empirical studies, the model converges toward a stationary linear log–log size-spectrum with a slope equal to −1.06, which is consistent with the values reported in empirical studies. In some cases, the distribution of the largest sizes departs from the stationary linear solution and is slightly curved downward. A sensitivity analysis to the parameters is conducted systematically. It shows that the stationary size-spectrum is not very sensitive to the parameters of the model. Numerical simulations of the effects of temperature and primary production variability on marine ecosystems size-spectra are provided in a companion paper [Maury, O., Shin, Y.-J., Faugeras, B., Ben Ari, T., Marsac, F., 2007. Modeling environmental effects on the size-structured energy flow through marine ecosystems. Part 2: simulations. Progress in Oceanography,



1276) Recherche du mot : common rorqual (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/balaenoptera_physalus)


1277) Recherche du mot : Père Briant (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pere_briant)


1278) Recherche du mot : Ecole doctorale AERME (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/projectEcoleDoctorale)


1279) Recherche du mot : Chipirón volantín (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thysanoteuthis_rhombus)


1280) Recherche du mot : Salps (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/salpes)


1281) Recherche du mot : Encornet volant (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ommastrephes_bartrami)


1282) Recherche du mot : Pieuvre palmée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tremoctopus_violaceus)


1283) Recherche du mot : Isurus paucus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/isurus_paucus)


1284) Recherche du mot : scientific observation (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/scientific_observation)


1285) Recherche du mot : Albatros d'Amsterdam (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diomedea_amsterdamensis)


1286) Recherche du mot : dôme (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/knoll)


1287) Recherche du mot : turtle (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/turtle)
1/1395: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragingofthegreenseaturtlecheloniamydasonseagrassbedsatmayotteislandindianoceandeterminedbyacoustictransmitters> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Foraging of the green sea turtle Chelonia mydas on seagrass beds at MayotteIsland (Indian Ocean), determined by acoustic transmitters
We studied the foraging rhythms of green sea turtles Chelonia mydas on the seagrass
beds of N'Gouja Bay, Mayotte Island (Comoros Archipelago) with acoustic transmitters and moored
listening stations. We monitored 8 tagged turtles (4 probable males, 3 probable females and 1 immature),
from 70 to 109 cm curved carapace length (CCL), for durations ranging from 5 to 92 d. The
turtles exhibited a regular diel pattern: they foraged mainly during the day (on average 87% of seagrass
detections were between 06:00 and 18:00 h) and rested on the inner reef slope during the night.
Night time feeding activities were observed on the seagrass bed when the night light was high. The
presence of turtles on the seagrass bed at night was significantly correlated with a night light index
(r = 0.54, p = 0.002), which included both moon light and cloudiness indices. Behaviour of the only
immature individual observed was similar to adult turtles, although it rested more frequently around
noon. All turtles displayed a high fidelity to 1 foraging site within the seagrass bed. Acoustic transmitters
and permanent listening stations are an appropriate technique for long-term behavioural
studies of turtles, with no human interaction with turtles during tracking, and represent a suitable
technique to assess the possible effects of environmental changes or human activities upon green
turtle behaviour.

2/1396: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thermalandtrophichabitatsoftheleatherbackturtleduringthenestingseasoninfrenchguiana> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Thermal and trophic habitats of the leatherback turtle during the nesting season in French Guiana
Understanding environmental cues determining behaviour and habitat use of species of conservation
concern is crucial if one aims at implementing sustainable management of these natural resources. In this
way, here, we investigate the thermal and trophic conditions encountered by the critically endangered
leatherback sea turtle Dermochelys coriacea during its nesting season in French Guiana where high bycatch
rates have been reported.
Mean sea water temperatures obtained in situ by animal-borne recorders were 26.6±0.7 °C in the water
column, with all but one turtle remaining in water N25 °C during the inter-nesting interval. In terms of prey
availability, regular jellyfish stranding events were recorded during the nesting season, on a 1.25-km long
section of the nesting beach. The occurrence of jellyfish was supported by benthic trawls performed on the
continental shelf, with a total of 45.4 kg of jellyfish collected in 3.5 h exclusively in coastal waters 10 to 20 m
deep where water transparency was between 0.8 and 3 m. This is consistent with the at sea distribution area
of gravid leatherbacks during their inter-nesting intervals, as they spent almost 70% of their time diving in
shallow (b20 m deep) waters in front of the Maroni River estuary. In French Guiana, leatherback's gelatinous
prey are thus present in very shallow water close to the nesting site and may be easily exploited by active
gravid leatherbacks. This suggests that French Guiana female leatherbacks may be influenced by local trophic
conditions and actively prospect productive areas overlapping with local fisheries ground.



1288) Recherche du mot : skiff (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/skiff)


1289) Recherche du mot : Taningia danae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/taaningia_danae)


1290) Recherche du mot : Comète maquereau (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/decapterus_macarellus)


1291) Recherche du mot : Caranx sexfasciatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/caranx_sexfasciatus)


1292) Recherche du mot : Via Mistral (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/via_mistral)


1293) Recherche du mot : mitigation (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/mitigation)
1/1397: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/madepreliminaryinformationonanewecprojecttoproposemeasurestomitigateadverseimpactsofopenoceanfisheriestargetinglargepelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : MADE: preliminary information on a new EC project to propose measures to mitigate adverse impacts of open ocean fisheries targeting large pelagic fish
A particular attention has been paid worldwide on longline fisheries as they catch considerable amount of by-catch (seabirds, turtles, sharks, etc.). Seabird and turtles by-catch mitigation methods have now been established in many fisheries worldwide, but similar efforts must be put to reduce by-catch of sharks. In the same ecosystems, another issue attracts the attention of international tuna commissions: the use of drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs). These FADs are responsible for major catches of juvenile tuna and non target pelagic species (sharks). Finally, the effects of thousands of FADs released regularly in the tropical oceans are unknown, and must be studied to estimate if they impact the biology of pelagic species. The European open ocean tropical and Mediterranean pelagic fishery (Spain, France, Portugal, Italy, Greece) is one of the main sources of catch, income and employment for the European fishery, with interactions with many developing countries. The MADE project was set up to develop measures to mitigate adverse impacts of fisheries targeting large pelagic fish in the open ocean: purse seiners using FADs and longliners. This 4-year project, started in mid-2008 within the 7th EC Framework Programme, and is a cooperative research carried out under the coordination of IRD, including 13 scientific institutions belonging to 6 European Countries and 2 ICPC countries in three different areas (Mediterranean Sea, Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean). Two main categories of mitigation measures will be studied: spatial management issues (e.g. closure areas) and technical solutions to reduce by-catch in these fisheries. The main concept of MADE is to follow a multi-disciplinary and comparative approach, combining biological and technological studies with economical analyses in different sites (Indian and Atlantic oceans, Mediterranean Sea), with a particular effort to closely associate fishers.



1294) Recherche du mot : Galeocerdo cuvier (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/galeocerdo_cuvier)
1/1398: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/historicaldatabaseonsoviettunalonglinetunaresearchintheindianandatlanticoceansfirstresultsofyugnironmfsdatarescueproject> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Historical database on Soviet tuna longline tuna research in the Indian and Atlantic oceans (first results of YugNIRO-NMFS data rescue project)
YugNIRO (formerly AzCherNIRO, till 1988), Kerch, Ukraine started tuna research in the Indian Ocean in early 1960-ies and such studies continued till early 1990-ies. For research purposes medium-sized fishing trawlers converted for pelagic longlining were used. Recent data inventory accounted about 130 research, searching, and fishing pelagic longline cruises for 1961-1989 targeted tunas (generally Thunnus), billfishes (Makaira, Tetrapturus, Xiphias gladius), pelagic sharks (Carcharhinus, Isurus, Alopias, Prionace glauca, Galeocerdo cuvier). Other pelagic species were recorded as bycatch. More than 5200 longline sets with about 2.5 millions nominal hooks were shot. For every research cruise the following data were colleted on set by set basis: number of hooks, hooks distribution by depth, total catch, and catch by species. Almost all the fish caught were measured, weighed, and analyzed. Estimated catch depth of every fish was recorded. Environmental data and MBT station data generally available. Due to lack of computer equipment and limited funding throughout years of data sampling this valuable data were stored on paper as logbooks of longline catches and biological analysis. In spite the careful treatment by YugNIRO personnel, there were a danger of loss for these unique data due to natural deterioration of media under time impact, accidents, natural disasters, other extraordinary situations, etc. In late 2002 under support of NMFS and NFWF data “rescue” project which principal goals were preparation of computer database and make this data available for joint YugNIRO/SWFSC analysis and for IOTC and ICCAT was started. “Rescue” is carried out by digitizing of the data, which exist only as manuscripts, in order to store them on computer media in the form of relational database. This project is at the final stage at presents, since most of the data available are in the digital form. These data represent unique dataset for Indian Ocean which could be used as an independent long-term biological and fisheries database as well as additional information to databases of IPTP/IOTC and national databases of other research center. Data and database description, database structure, first results of the database creation, data digitizing, and analyses, and potential access to the data is presented in this paper.



1295) Recherche du mot : Bonite ventre rayé (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/katsuwonus_pelamis)


1296) Recherche du mot : Natural resources exploitation tool (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/natural_resources_exploitation_tool)


1297) Recherche du mot : Aprion virescens (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/aprion_virescens)


1298) Recherche du mot : outil scientifique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/scientific_tool)


1299) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus galapagensis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_galapagensis)


1300) Recherche du mot : Imperial blackfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/schedophilus_ovalis)


1301) Recherche du mot : Tuna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/tuna)
1/1399: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/arenaturalandfishingmortalitiescomparablefortropicaltunasamultispeciesapproachwithtaggingdata> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Are natural and fishing mortalities comparable for tropical tunas ? A multispecies approach with tagging data
With the aim of increasing the precision of parameter estimates in tagging analyses, we assumed that the dynamics of tagged fish from different tropical tuna species have processes in common. With this consideration in mind we fit different data sets from two distinct periods of the eastern Atlantic fishery with a multispecies tag-attrition model to provide information for the shared parameters. Among the different assumptions considered, a common attrition rate for the three species of tropical tuna (yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tuna) was not supported by the data under the AIC criteria. However the estimates of the attrition rate for yellowfin and for skipjack were relatively close. On the basis of these preliminary results, it would be interesting to check in the future the accuracy of a common type-1 tag losses (i.e., α) between tagging periods/locations or between species with more complete data sets. Given the limitations of the data and accounting for model uncertainties, it was shown that the Z coefficient was increased by a factor 4.5 for yellowfin from the first period of time (1980-1981) to the second one (1996- 2002). For skipjack and bigeye tuna this increase reached 3.4 and 3.2, respectively. One explanation may result from the increasing use of FADs fishing operations in the tropical surface fishery.

2/1400: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicecologyofmarinebirdsandpelagicfishesfromreunionislandasdeterminedbystableisotopeanalysis> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Trophic ecology of marine birds and pelagic fishes from Reunion Island as determined by stable isotope analysis
Stable nitrogen and carbon isotopes were used to investigate trophic ecology in tropical marine bird and fish communities from Reunion Island, western Indian Ocean. Firstly, isotope signatures in the liver of Barau's petrels Pterodroma baraui, Audubon's shearwaters Puffinus lherminieri bailloni, and white-tailed tropicbirds Phaethon lepturus were used to compare their trophic levels and determine whether they forage in the same areas while breeding on Reunion Island. Spatial and trophic segregations were noted among these seabirds. Barau's petrels seem to feed on prey of higher trophic levels than Audubon's shearwaters. Different isotopic signatures in adults and juveniles of these species suggest that these chick-rearing Procellariiformes adopt a dual food-provisioning strategy, making separate foraging trips to feed their fledglings and for their own maintenance. Satellite tracking should be undertaken to verify this hypothesis. Furthermore, novel data were obtained on the seabirds' interbreeding period by analyzing feather signatures. White-tailed tropicbirds are thought to change foraging areas during this season, although none of the birds seemed to shift diets. Secondly, isotopic signatures in the muscle of yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares, skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis, and common dolphinfish Coryphaena hippurus were used to gather information on their feeding behaviors in Reunion Island waters. Spatial and trophic segregations were also observed, particularly between common dolphinfish and the tuna species, where the former fed more on low trophic level coastal organisms under fish aggregating devices than did the latter. Finally, trophic interactions in bird and fish communities were investigated. Seabirds appear to be trophically more structured than fish, foraging in a wider range of areas. Our results confirmed feeding associations between Audubon's shearwaters and yellowfin tuna.

3/1401: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/movementsoftropicaltunasfromthetunaassociatedbaitboatfisheryofdakarandfrombetypandhistoricaltaggingoperationsintheatlanticocean> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Movements of tropical tunas from the tuna-associated baitboat fishery of Dakar and from BETYP and historical tagging operations in the Atlantic Ocean
Tagging operations were conducted in the northern part of the Dakar baitboat fishing area
(13°N-21°N/15°W-25°W) from 1994 to 2000 (MAC program) and in the eastern Atlantic Ocean
by the BETYP program from 1999 to 2003. BETYP tagging took place in the Gulf of Guinea, in
Mauritania-Senegal (in collaboration with MAC), in the Canary, Madeira and Azores islands.
Movements of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye from Dakar baitboats are presented together with
tuna movements obtained from BETYP recoveries. These data are compared with movements
from historical tagging operations conducted from 1955 to 1998 in the entire Atlantic Ocean.
More emphasis is put on bigeye, as the main objective of BETYP is to obtain a better
understanding of bigeye stock structure and other parameters relevant to stock assessment.

4/1402: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/usinglocalecologicalknowledgelektoprovideinsightonthetunapurseseinefleetsoftheindianoceanusefulformanagement> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Using local ecological knowledge (LEK) to provide insight on the tuna purse seine fleets of the Indian Ocean useful for management
The purse seine fishery in the Western Indian Ocean is dominated by Spanish and French vessels that rely heavily on the use of drifting fish aggregation devices (DFADs) to capture tropical tuna species (skipjack, yellowfin and bigeye tuna). This study uses local ecological knowledge (LEK) obtained through standardized interviews of fishing masters to compare and characterize the body of local ecological knowledge, fishing technology and fishing strategies of both fleets, with the goal of obtaining useful information for the management of the fishery. A notable difference between fleets was the number of DFADs actively monitored per vessel at any given time, which was much higher for Spanish vessels (ca. 60 versus 20 DFADs). Spanish vessels also achieved higher vessel CPUE (catch per DFAD set) than their French counterparts. The use of supply vessels to manage, monitor and protect productive DFADs, and the latest satellite-based technology to track and remotely monitor DFAD aggregations is restricted to the Spanish fleet. The French do not use supply vessels and deploy less sophisticated tracking buoys. These technological disparities resulted in some fishing strategy differences between both fleets, but few differences were found in the knowledge of tuna behavior accumulated by the fishers.

5/1403: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/lessonsfromthepastinvestigatinghistoricaldatafrombluefintunafisheries> : SCORE = 1.002916
Doc : Lessons from the past : investigating historical data from bluefin tuna fisheries
In 1963, the leading fisheries targeting Atlantic bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus) in the Norwegian Sea and North Sea suddenly collapsed without any warning. Little is known about this collapse and several hypotheses have been put forward, such as changes in migratory routes, recruitment failure or eradication of a sub-population: all of these hypotheses could result from natural causes and/or from overfishing. To help explain this mysterious event, an original data set of the main bluefin tuna fisheries of the 20th century, including total catch and size composition of the catch, has been compiled and analysed. The results reveal a strong and unambiguous link between the Nordic purse seine and Spanish trap fisheries during the 1950s and 1960s. However, this link vanished during the 1970s. In addition, the North-west Atlantic and Mediterranean trap fisheries appeared also to be partially connected to the Nordic fisheries. During the 1950s and 1960s, the main migration routes of bluefin tuna were probably from the Mediterranean spawning grounds and from the West Atlantic coasts to the Norwegian coast and North Sea, which were probably a key feeding ground at that time. The analyses also lead to the conclusion that interactions between environmental, trophic and fishing processes have probably affected bluefin tuna migration patterns which would have finally caused the Nordic fisheries collapse. This retrospective analysis finally leads to an original 2013 albeit more speculative 2013 hypothesis concerning Atlantic bluefin tuna population structure, therein conjectured as an assemblage of at least three sub-populations.

6/1404: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/isotopicevidenceofdistinctfeedingecologiesandmovementpatternsintwomigratorypredatorsyellowfintunaandswordfishofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8010912
Doc : Isotopic evidence of distinct feeding ecologies and movement patterns in two migratory predators (yellowfin tuna and swordfish) of the western Indian Ocean
Ecologists primarily use δ15N values to estimate the trophic level of organisms, while δ13C, and even recently δ15N, are utilized to delineate feeding habitats. However, many factors can influence the stable isotopic composition of consumers, e.g. age, starvation or isotopic signature of primary producers. Such sources of variability make the interpretation of stable isotope data rather complex. To examine these potential sources of variability, muscle tissues of yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) and swordfish (Xiphias gladius) of various body lengths were sampled between 2001 and 2004 in the western Indian Ocean during different seasons and along a latitudinal gradient (23°S to 5°N). Body length and latitude effects on δ15N and δ13C were investigated using linear models. Both latitude and body length significantly affect the stable isotope values of the studied species but variations were much more pronounced for δ15N. We explain the latitudinal effect by differences in nitrogen dynamics existing at the base of the food web and propagating along the food chain up to top predators. This spatial pattern suggests that yellowfin and swordfish populations exhibit a relatively unexpected resident behaviour at the temporal scale of their muscle tissue turnover. The body length effect is significant for both species but this effect is more pronounced in swordfish as a consequence of their different feeding strategies, reflecting specific physiological abilities. Swordfish adults are able to reach very deep water and have access to a larger size range of prey than yellowfin tuna. In contrast, yellowfin juveniles and adults spend most of their time in the surface waters and large yellowfin tuna continue to prey on small organisms. Consequently, nitrogen isotopic signatures of swordfish tissues are higher than those of yellowfin tuna and provide evidence for different trophic levels between these species. Thus, in contrast to δ13C, δ15N analyses of tropical Indian Ocean marine predators allow the investigation of complex vertical and spatial segregation, both within and between species, even in the case of highly opportunistic feeding behaviours. The linear models developed in this study allow us to make predictions of δ15N values and to correct for any body length or latitude differences in future food web studies.

7/1405: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofapecosmaspatializedmassbalancedapexpredatorsecosystemmodeltostudyphysiologicallystructuredtunapopulationdynamicsintheirecosystem> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : An overview of APECOSM, a Spatialized Mass Balanced “Apex Predators ECOSystem Model” to Study Physiologically Structured Tuna Population Dynamics in their Ecosystem
This paper gives an overview of the ecosystem model APECOSM (Apex Predators ECOSystem Model) which is developed in the framework of the GLOBEC-CLIOTOP Programme. APECOSM represents the flow of energy through the ecosystem with a size-resolved structure in both space and time. The uptake and use of energy for growth, maintenance and reproduction by the organisms are modelled according to the DEB (dynamic energy budget) theory (Kooijmann, 2000) and the size-structured nature of predation is explicit. The pelagic community is divided into epipelagic and mesopelagic groups, the latter being subdivided into vertically migrant and non-migrant species. The model is mass-conservative. Energy is provided as the basis of the model through primary production and transferred through 3D spatially explicit size-spectra. Focus species (tunas at present, but any predator species can be considered) are “extracted” from the global size-spectra without losing mass balance and represented with more physiological and behavioural details. The forcing effects of temperature, currents, light, oxygen, primary production and fishing are explicitly taken into account.

8/1406: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bluefintunamanagementandconservationissues> : SCORE = 2.866071
Doc : Bluefin tuna management and conservation issues


9/1407: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysisofdataobtainedfromobserverprogrammesconductedinandintheindianoceanonboardfrenchpurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Analysis of data obtained from observer programmes conducted in 2005 and 2006 in the indian ocean on board french purse seiners
This paper is a preliminary analysis of the data obtained under the National Database Plan (PNDB).
Between October 2005 and July 2006, three observers from the Development and Research Institute
(IRD) have been on board four French tuna purse seiners. They had to estimate by-catch and discard
and collect detailed information on the fishing activities and the use of FADs.
Areas prospected during these 134 days were NW Seychelles, SE Seychelles, E. Somalia and
Maldives-Chagos; 194 sets (116 positives and 86 negative) have been observed, with a majority
(84%) on free schools (162 sets, 51% positive) and quite few (16%) on associated schools (32 sets,
81% positives). During the day, the main activities of the boat were searching and fishing,
respectively 31% and 13% of total activity. Main reasons for null sets over free school as well as
FADs was that fish sinks or move too fast.
Discards were practically nulls and concerned mainly yellowfin tuna. About by-catch, it represents
less than 1% of total catch (in weight), mainly triggerfish, rainbow runner and wahoo. Selacians
(except shark whales) represented nearly 12% of the total by-catch (in weight) with mainly silky shark
over FADs and skate over free school. As regards billfishes, they represent 5% of total by-catch (in
weight) with mainly Indo-Pacific Sailfish over free school and black marlin over FADs.

10/1408: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multispeciesassessmentoftunascaughtinthetropicalatlanticpurseseinefisherysensitivityofproductionmodelstobiasesinreportedcatches> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Multi-species assessment of tunas caught in the Tropical Atlantic purse Seine fishery: sensitivity of production models to biases in reported catches
In this document, different scenarios of uncertainties in a multispecies fishery are presented. Uncertainties have been considered in the estimation of the species composition of the tropical tuna catch as well as in the total catch. Although three species (yellofin, skipjack and bigeye) are involved in the tropical tuna fishery, only uncertainties in the bigeye vs skipjack have been taken into account, in order to simplify the analysis. Regarding the total catch, bigeye has been considered as the species with higher uncertainty due to the IUU catch component. Analyses have been focused in evaluating the sensitivity of the current assessment methods to these uncertainties. Taking into account that the two sources of uncertainty affect the age structure of the catch as well as the total catch, surplus production methods have been applied in the assessment.

11/1409: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/howtomodelthesizedependentverticalbehaviourofbigeyethunnusobesustunaanditsenvironment> : SCORE = 1.755103
Doc : How to model the size-dependent vertical behaviour of bigeye (Thunnus obesus) tuna and its environment?
This paper attempts to model the vertical behavior of bigeye tuna in its environment. A sizedependant
model for bigeye tuna “normal” vertical behavior is developed. The model rests on
sound hypothesis about bigeye vertical behavior and takes into account the remarkable ability
of tuna to physiologically modify their heat exchange rate with ambient waters. The model
explicitly relates heat exchange rates to size. Simulations are presented which closely matches
with observed behaviors. Environmental factors and physio-ethological processes involved in
the bigeye tuna thermoregulation and vertical movements are discussed as well as the potential
consequences of the size-dependence of bigeye tuna thermoregulation.

12/1410: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingperformanceandinformationexchangebetweenfishingvesselswithartificialneuralnetworks> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Modeling performance and information exchange between fishing vessels with artificial neural networks
A fishery is simulated in which 20 artificial vessels learn to make decisions through an artificial neural network in order to search for schools of fish among the available fishing grounds. Three scenarios with different degrees of variability, including uncertainty in the searching process, are considered. The simulation model accounts for the main features commonly observed in a purse seine tuna fishery in a time and a space scale. Vessel strategies are chosen by the artificial neural network, on the basis of the following decision criteria: information concerning time searching in a specific area, previous performance in this area, knowledge of the quality of surrounding fishing grounds, presence of other vessels fishing actively and trip length. An analysis of the effects of sharing information between vessels is done and this was compared to individual artificial fishing vessels. In general, a group of fishing vessels show higher performance than individual vessels. A convex performance comparison curve for several group sizes is found in all scenarios considered. The optimum group size differs according to the variability of the artificial world. At bigger group sizes performance decreases, probably due to competition and depletion effects of some fishing grounds.

13/1411: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/firstfieldbasedexperimentsupportingthemeetingpointhypothesisforschoolinginpelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : First field-based experiment supporting the meeting point hypothesis for schooling in pelagic fish
Aggregations of fish around fish aggregation devices (FADs) have been widely described in the literature;
most commercial catches of tuna by surface fisheries are performed around FADs, taking advantage of
this behaviour. The meeting point hypothesis (MPH) suggests that fish could make use of FADs to
increase the chance of encounters between conspecifics, helping individuals to form larger schools. To
attempt a validation of the MPH, we performed an experiment in the field to test the following
predictions: (1) fish spend more time at FADs than at any other random points and therefore aggregate
around FADs, and (2) fish arrive at FADs as isolated individuals or in small groups and leave them in
larger groups. Our investigation involved acoustic telemetry techniques commonly used to observe fish
at FADs. The study was carried out on a small pelagic fish species, the bigeye scad, Selar crumenophthalmus,
in Saint-Paul's Bay (Reunion Island). Our results validated our two predictions: FADs acted as
retention points, increasing the encounter rate of fish and enhancing schooling behaviour, thereby
supporting the meeting point hypothesis. FADs could be beneficial to the fitness of the associated fish,
promote increased school size and hence confer the advantages of being in a larger group. The impact of
the deployment of large number of FADs in some ocean regions is reinterpreted in light of our results.
 2009 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

14/1412: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/interamericantropicaltunacommissionthmeeting> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Inter-American tropical Tuna Commission, 8th meeting
1- Introduction:

Statistical models that are increasingly used nowadays by various tuna RFO and by the IATTC, are
clearly very interesting, but it appears, when reading the recent IATTC results, that the main results
obtained by these complex models are often very difficult to follow.
This note will discuss this present lack of transparency in the present stock
assessment reports, and it will make practical recommendations allowing to better understand
the basic input data as well as the main results obtained from these models.

15/1413: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewoffisherydatainrelationwiththeimplementationoftheseasonalmoratoriumonfadfisheriesintheatlantic> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : An overview of fishery data in relation with the implementation of the seasonal moratorium on FAD fisheries in the Atlantic
This paper presents a set of figures related to the tuna catches by species and by area taken by purse seiners in the Atlantic during recent
years. Most of these figures are based on the EU purse seiners as this
fleet has been the most important in the area and always providing good TASK 2 data to the ICCAT. Its main goal is to show the major changes in the purse seine fisheries during recent years, and especially in relation with the moratorium on FAD fishing, partial EU or total ICCAT, that has been + or – well implemented during the period novembre 1997-January 2005. These figures and maps are based on the basic ICCAT TASK2 data base, and they could easily be rehandled following potential new needs expressed by the ICCAT WGs

16/1414: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/frenchpurseseinetunafisheriesstatisticsintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : French purse-seine tuna fisheries statistics in the Indian Ocean, 1981-2005
This document presents a summary of the main general French purse-seiners activities in
the Indian Ocean since 1981: effort, catch by species and fishing type (log and free
swimming schools), catch per unit of effort, sampling and mean weights for the main species.

17/1415: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/frenchpurseseinetunafisheriesstatisticsintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : French purse-seine tuna fisheries statistics in the Indian Ocean, 1981-2005
This document presents a summary of the main general French purse-seiners activities in
the Indian Ocean since 1981: effort, catch by species and fishing type (log and free
swimming schools), catch per unit of effort, sampling and mean weights for the main species.

18/1416: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemapproachtofisheriesabriefoverviewandsomeconsiderationsforitsapplicationiniccat> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries: a brief overview and some considerations for its application in ICCAT
During the last SCRS plenary meeting, the sub-committee on environment suggested to present
a document on the ‘Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries' (EAF). This document firstly recalls the
general scientific and institutional background of EAF, then we propose a synoptic view of
EAF, including four main domains: governance, exploitation, resources and impacts on
ecosystems. The way that EAF is tackled within the various tuna commissions is then
summarised. Finally, we rapidly examine the way the SCRS could cope with EAF issues and
we suggest to merge the sub-committee on environment with this on by-catch into a single subcommittee
on ecosystem.

19/1417: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/determinismandplasticityoffishschoolingbehaviourasexemplifiedbythesouthpacificjackmackereltrachurusmurphyi> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Determinism and plasticity of fish schooling behaviour as exemplified by the South Pacific jack mackerel (Trachurus murphyi)
Pelagic fish schools are thought to show a general pattern of dispersion at night and aggregation within schools during the day. This pattern is often accepted as the major rule driving most of the other physiological, biological and ecological processes. Foraging on mobile prey, for instance, is assumed to be enhanced by schooling behaviour. Current theory assumes then that foraging is only possible for obligatory gregarious predatory fish from dawn to dusk. However, offshore mesopelagic communities perform vertical migrations and are out of reach for most oceanic pelagic predators during the day (with the exception of some apex predators, e.g. swordfish or big-eye tuna). To investigate how fish may overcome this apparent contradiction, we studied the 3-dimensional spatial strategy of the South Pacific jack mackerel Trachurus murphyi according to the abiotic and biotic conditions of the habitat. Data came from acoustic surveys performed in central Chile in 1997, 1998 and 1999. Our results show that the jack mackerel distribution was driven by prey during the night when foraging, and related to the hydrology when resting during the day in the upper part of the oxycline. Fish were more aggregated at night than during the day, probably because jack mackerel cycles of schooling behaviour depend primarily on prey availability. This 'atypical' behaviour could be an adaptation of gregarious pelagic fish to an oceanic ecosystem. Fish schooling behaviour is not necessarily driven directly by the diel cycle; rather, it can be functional and depends on prey availability.

20/1418: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evoluciondelascapturasdejuvenilesderabilypatudodesdelaextenciondelapescasobreobjectosbalizados> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Evolucion de las capturas de juveniles de rabil y patudo desde la extencion de la pesca sobre objectos balizados
This document analyses the distribution of the catch of small yellowfin obtained for the entire
purse seine tuna fishing fleet in the Atlantic Ocean from 1991 to 2003. Catches have been
analysed by year, month, area and fishing mode (free school or floating object), in order to
define areas, seasons and fishing mode associated with largest catches of small yellowfin and
the possible relationship with the moratoria established to reduce juvenile bigeye catches.

21/1419: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/cireneairseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Cirene: Air—Sea Interactions in the Seychelles—Chagos Thermocline Ridge Region
The Vasco—Cirene program ex-plores how strong air—sea inter-actions promoted by the shallow thermocline and high sea surface temperature in the Seychelles—Chagos thermocline ridge results in marked variability at synoptic, intraseasonal, and interannual time scales. The Cirene oceano-graphic cruise collected oceanic, atmospheric, and air—sea flux observations in this region in Jan-uary—February 2007. The contem-poraneous Vasco field experiment complemented these measure-ments with balloon deployments from the Seychelles. Cirene also contributed to the development of the Indian Ocean observing system via deployment of a moor-ing and 12 Argo profilers.Unusual conditions prevailed in the Indian Ocean during Janu-ary and February 2007, following the Indian Ocean dipole climate anomaly of late 2006. Cirene measurements show that the Seychelles—Chagos thermocline ridge had higher-than-usual heat content with subsurface anomalies up to 7°C. The ocean surface was warmer and fresher than average, and unusual eastward currents prevailed down to 800 m. These anomalous conditions had a major impact on tuna fishing in early 2007. Our dataset also sampled the genesis and maturation of Tropical Cyclone Dora, including high surface temperatures and a strong diurnal cycle before the cyclone, followed by a 1.5°C cool-ing over 10 days. Balloonborne instruments sampled the surface and boundary layer dynamics of Dora. We observed small-scale structures like dry-air layers in the atmosphere and diurnal warm layers in the near-surface ocean. The Cirene data will quantify the impact of these finescale features on the upper-ocean heat budget and atmospheric deep convection.

22/1420: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitelinkedacousticreceiverstoobservebehavioroffishesinremoteareas> : SCORE = 0.91553277
Doc : Satellite-linked acoustic receivers to observe behavior of fishes in remote areas
Automated acoustic receivers are now widely used by biologists to study the behavior of fish. However, currently available acoustic receivers require physical recovery of the units to download stored data. Such operation is often difficult in remote study areas like in the open ocean. We present a new satellite-linked acoustic receiver (Vemco VR3-Argos) that allows downloading data through a satellite uplink (Argos). The VR3-Argos can last up to one year, sending GPS positions and tag data at regular time intervals. We illustrate the advantages of this new technology with tagging data from 121 fish of seven species (yellowfin tuna, bigeye tuna, skipjack tuna, wahoo, dolphinfish, silky shark and oceanic triggerfish) caught and released around drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean, far from any land. In opposition with the classic acoustic receivers (Vemco VR2), the use of VR3-Argos allowed to collect data for several weeks after leaving the drifting FADs. Maximum residence times of 3 days for bigeye tuna, 7 days for skipjack, 8 days for wahoo, 10 days for silky shark and 15 days for yellowfin tuna, dolphinfish and oceanic triggerfish could be recorded. VR2 and VR3-Argos are equivalent in terms of quality of residence times data, however depth data obtained through satellites are aggregated in 8 classes for compression purposes, which leads to a loss of precision available with raw data. Future directions of this technology are discussed.

23/1421: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/krigingofthelatentprobabilityofabinomialvariableapplicationtofishstatistics> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Kriging of the latent probability of a binomial variable: application to fish statistics
The tropical tuna purse seine fishery is characterised by two fishing modes: one on free swimming tuna schools and one on schools associated with Fish Aggregating Devices (FAD). Our purpose is thus to understand how the two fishing modes are spatially distributed in the Indian Ocean and how this distribution has changed over the seasons and the years. Conditional on the latent probability that a set could be realized on a FAD, the number of sets on FAD was considered as independent Binomial random variables. Such a hierarchical model allows reducing the instabilities encountered when working on empirical ratios based on few observations. We discussed the connections with “kriging with measurement errors” and, the determination of the mean and the variance of the latent variable. The use of 22 years of fishing statistics (1985 – 2006) indicated a small year to year variability between variograms of the latent variable. A single model was thus used to krige the probability for fishing sets to be on log school. The time series of the kriging maps highlighted areas of systematic large probability of the second fishing mode which was consistent with expert knowledge but question the stationarity assumption made on the latent variable.

24/1422: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acousticcharacterizationoftropicaltunapreyinthewesternindianoceaninrelationwithenvironmentalconditions> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Acoustic characterization of tropical tuna prey in the Western Indian Ocean in relation with environmental conditions
From 2002 to 2004, four scientific cruises were conducted by the Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD) in the Mozambique Channel (Western Indian Ocean), in order to study the pelagic habitat of large top predators such as tuna and tuna-like species. Acoustic data were recorded to investigate the spatial and temporal distribution of plankton layers and micronekton aggregations. Top predators (tunas and tuna-like species) that were caught by longlines were considered as biological samplers of the micronekton organisms. The Sea Level Anomalies (SLA) were used to characterize the presence of a persistent field of mesoscale anticyclonic gyres in the Mozambique Channel. In this study, we studied the possible links between the mesocale dynamics of the eddies, the presence of prey detected by acoustics, and the diet of tunas caught by longlines. We attempted to demonstrate the importance of mesoscale dynamics for the productivity in this area (i.e., occurrence of cyclonic eddies in the Mozambique Channel) for the distribution of the micronekton organisms that are consumed by the top predators.

25/1423: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/actualizaciondelacpueestandarizadaderabiladultothunnusalbacaresdelaflotadecercotropicaleuropeaeneloceanoatlanticodea> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Actualizacion de la CPUE estandarizada de rabil adulto (thunnus albacares) de la flota de cerco tropical europea en el oceano atlantico de 1980 a 2006
This document presents a standardized index update of adult yellowfin (>30 kg) of tropical purse seine fleets in the Atlantic Ocean from 1980 to 2006. The data used were taken from spear fishing logbooks and detailed information of the fleet. The standardization has been carried out by generalized linear models (GLM) using the delta model. The standardized indices are obtained from the GLM model estimations: one is calculated from the least squares means (LSMeans) and another from the annual averages of the adjusted values. The variability of the latter is lower. Therefore, in this case, it is a more adequate index to be used in assessment models. The year, country, category, age of vessel and catches of skipjack tuna, which is the other target species of these fleets, were considered as explanatory variables.

26/1424: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteonthestockstructureofpacificbigeyetunatobeusedinstockassessments> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Note on the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna to be used in stock assessments
This paper reviews and discusses the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna in relation with the prospects of stock assessment analysis of this population. The analysis of fishery data, mainly the spatio temporal bigeye catches by gear and by sizes, indicates that the present 150°W frontier based on historical and administrative results does not appear to be a convenient biological frontier. Our conclusion is that the present lack of significant tag recoveries across the 150°W frontier should not be considered as being significant, due to the limited numbers of bigeye presently tagged and to the great distances between present tagging locations. North South movements of adult bigeye are also a potential source of mixing between eastern and western bigeye populations. It is hypothetized that there could be an increased net flow of juvenile bigeye towards the WCPO due to the increased number of FADs in the western EPO. Our conclusion is that all the bigeye stock assessments by WCPFC and the IATTC should preferably be conducted in a unified best model and at a Pacific wide scale. A large scale tagging programme covering the distribution area of the entire bigeye population and fully coordinated between WCPFC and IATTC would be necessary to obtain realistic and age specific movement patterns at a Pacific wide level. Management actions of the bigeye stocks should also be fully coordinated between the Western and Eastern stocks, because of the probably weak biological frontier and also because of the bigeye long life span. The long term management benefits or failures will probably be shared by WCPFC and IATTC.

27/1425: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deepdivingbehaviorobservedinyellowfintunathunnusalbacares> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Deep diving behavior observed in yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares)
Yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) are known to preferentially occupy the surface mixed layer above the thermocline and it has been suggested that they are physiologically restricted to water temperatures no more than 8 °C colder than surface waters. However, we here report for dive data acquired from a large yellowfin tuna which demonstrate for the first time that this species is indeed capable of making prolonged dives into deep cold waters. A yellowfin tuna (134 cm fork length) caught near an anchored fish aggregating device (FAD) in the Seychelles (Western Indian Ocean) was equipped with an internally implanted archival tag and released. The fish was recaptured 98 days later. As predicted for this species, this fish spent 85% of its time shallower than 75 m (maximum thermocline depth experienced by the fish) but, over the course of the track, it performed three deep dives to 578 m, 982 m and 1160 m. Minimum ambient water temperatures recorded at these depths were 8.6 °C, 7.4 °C and 5.8 °C respectively and varied by up to 23.3 °C from surface temperatures. The fish spent 8.3% of its time in waters more than 8 °C colder than the surface layer and daily experienced a wide range of sea temperatures (mode at 15-16 °C) and of temperatures of the gut cavity (mode at 6 °C). The reason for these dives can not be known. These depths and temperatures significantly exceed those reported in the literature so far and clearly demonstrate that this species has the physiological and behavioral ability to penetrate deep cold sections of the ocean.

28/1426: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/backtothefutureinvestigatinghistoricaldataofbluefintunafisheries> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Back to the future: Investigating historical data of bluefin tuna fisheries


29/1427: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimationofnominalfishingeffortoftropicaltunapurseseinersfromvmsdata> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Estimation of nominal fishing effort of tropical tuna purse seiners from VMS data


30/1428: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/atlanticbluefintunacenturiesoffluctuatingfisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Atlantic bluefin tuna: 100 centuries of fluctuating fisheries
This document reviews the major changes observed in the several bluefin fisheries that have been identified in various areas of the Atlantic and Mediterranean Sea during the last 10000 years. This study first briefly reviews the multiple fisheries that have already been active in prehistorical and historical times and the beginning of 20th century, during which major industrial fishing activities have been permanently developed on bluefin, especially in the Mediterranean Sea. The analysis of the fishing activities during the last 50 years is highly focused on the catch and effort data of Japanese longliners, because this fleet has been heavily targeting bluefin and providing the best and longest statistical series available, these data covering a wide geographical area. This historical analysis of bluefin fisheries shows the large scale yearly migrations of bluefin tunas between its spawning and feeding zones. It also shows that bluefin tunas have been historically fished in a very wide range of ecosystems and that and showing a great variability in the targeted time and area strata. The paper describes and discusses this major variability of the bluefin fishing strata that remains widely unexplained. Further data mining and ad hoc research should allow to better explain this major variability of the bluefin fisheries that has been playing an indirect but probably significant role in past and present stock assessments of both Western and Eastern Atlantic stocks.

31/1429: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/topmarinepredatorstracklagrangiancoherentstructures> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Top marine predators track Lagrangian coherent structures
Meso- and submesoscales (fronts, eddies, filaments) in surface ocean flow have a crucial influence on marine ecosystems. Their dynamics partly control the foraging behavior and the displacement of marine top predators (tuna, birds, turtles, and cetaceans). In this work we focus on the role of submesoscale structures in the Mozambique Channel in the distribution of a marine predator, the Great Frigatebird. Using a newly developed dynamic concept, the finite-size Lyapunov exponent (FSLE), we identified Lagrangian coherent structures (LCSs) present in the surface flow in the channel over a 2-month observation period (August and September 2003). By comparing seabird satellite positions with LCS locations, we demonstrate that frigatebirds track precisely these structures in the Mozambique Channel, providing the first evidence that a top predator is able to track these FSLE ridges to locate food patches. After comparing bird positions during long and short trips and different parts of these trips, we propose several hypotheses to understand how frigatebirds can follow these LCSs. The birds might use visual and/or olfactory cues and/or atmospheric current changes over the structures to move along these biologic corridors. The birds being often associated with tuna schools around foraging areas, a thorough comprehension of their foraging behavior and movement during the breeding season is crucial not only to seabird ecology but also to an appropriate ecosystemic approach to fisheries in the channel.

32/1430: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climaticoscillationsandtunacatchratesintheindianoceanawaveletapproachtotimeseriesanalysis> : SCORE = 1.002916
Doc : Climatic oscillations and tuna catch rates in the Indian Ocean: a wavelet approach to time series analysis
We analysed the influence of climatic oscillations
[based on the Indian Oscillation Index (IOI)] on
monthly catch rates of two tropical tuna species in
the equatorial Indian Ocean. We carried out wavelet
analysis, an efficient method of time series analysis
to study non-stationary data. Catch per unit of effort
(CPUE) of bigeye tuna was computed from Japanese
longline statistics from 1955 to 2002 in the equatorial
Indian Ocean and CPUE of yellowfin tuna
was derived from industrial purse seine statistics
from 1984 to 2003 in the Western Indian Ocean.
Wavelet analyses allowed us to quantify both the
pattern of variability in the time series and nonstationary
associations between tuna and climatic
signals. Phase analyses were carried out to investigate
dependency between the two signals. We
reported strong associations between tuna and
climate series for the 4- and 5-yr periodic modes, i.e.
the periodic band of the El Nin˜o Southern Oscillation
signal propagation in the Indian Ocean.
These associations were non-stationary, evidenced
from 1970 to 1990 for bigeye, and from 1984 to
1991 and then from 1993 to 2001 for yellowfin.
Warm episodes (low negative IOI values) matched
increases of longline catch rates of bigeye during the
1970–1990 time frame, whereas the strong 1997–
1998 warm event matched a decrease of purse seine
catch rates of yellowfin. We discussed these results
in terms of changes in catchability for purse seine
and longline.

33/1431: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thekeyimportanceoftheunderlyingstockrecruitmentassumptionwhenevaluatingthepotentialofmanagementregulationsofatlanticbluefintuna> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : The key importance of the underlying stock-recruitment assumption when evaluating the potential of management regulations of Atlantic bluefin tuna
The aim of this study is to investigate the implications of different stock-recruitment assumptions when examining the potential of Dubrovnik's bluefin tuna recovery plan. To do so, some Beverton and Holt relationships displaying contrasting steepness of 0.99, 0.90, 0.75 and 0.50 were applied within a simulation model. In addition to these four stock-recruitment scenarios, parental effects and stochastic variations were also considered. The main conclusion is that our ability to evaluate the consequences of the Dubrovnik agreement (as any set of management measures) relies on our capacity to predict future recruitment levels in an accurate way. Assuming a Beverton and Holt relationship with different steepness, with or without parental effects and with or without stochastic variations led to contrasting outputs, i.e. from a significant rebuilding of the simulated population within 15 years to the crash of this same simulated population. This outcome is somewhat problematic, as we are unable to properly estimate the stock-recruitment relationship for the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock. Consequently, it is crucial to clearly state recruitment assumptions when an advice is given and to consider a significant range of contrasting and realistic stock-recruitment relationships.

34/1432: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/futureclimatechangeswhateffectsontunaresourcesandfisheries> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Future climate changes : what effects on tuna resources and fisheries ?


35/1433: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/opportunisticpredationintunaasizebasedapproach> : SCORE = 1.3579546
Doc : Opportunistic predation in tuna: a size-based approach
To test whether predation is an opportunistic size-based process within a tuna community, analyses were carried out on the size composition of stomach contents of bigeye tuna Thunnus obesus (Lowe, 1839) and yellowfin tuna T. albacares (Bonnaterre, 1788) caught in 1995 to 1997 during longline scientific surveys in the French Polynesian Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). Prey size distributions were compared with the size distribution of organisms collected by pelagic trawls carried out during the same programme. Relationships between prey size and predator size were studied using quantile regressions, and were related to tuna mouth-gape measurements. The results showed that mean and maximum sizes of prey increased with increasing predator size, and that maximum prey sizes (versus tuna size) were below those predicted by tuna mouth-gape size. Minimum prey size varied little with tuna size, and the size distributions of prey in tuna stomachs were very asymmetrical (lognormal type), confirming that during growth, tunas continue to feed on small prey. Comparison with previous studies on other piscivorous species from different ecosystems underlined that tunas feed on very small prey in relation to their own size. However, comparison of size distributions of prey in stomach contents and prey in pelagic trawls revealed that bigeye tuna select larger prey than yellowfin tuna when such prey are available.

36/1434: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/driftingfishaggregationdevicescouldactasanecologicaltrapfortropicaltunaspecies> : SCORE = 0.91553277
Doc : Drifting fish aggregation devices could act as an ecological trap for tropical tuna species
Purse seine fishing on fish aggregating devices (FADs) has expanded considerably during
the last 15 yr in tropical tuna purse seine fisheries, and FADs currently account for about 70% of
their reported tuna catches. The scientific community has expressed concern over the consequences
of this fishing practice in terms of yield per recruit and suspected detrimental effects on FADassociated
tunas. To explore possible detrimental effects, we compared stomach fullness, fish plumpness,
growth rate, and migration behaviour between free school and drifting FAD-associated tunas
for skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis and yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares caught in the Atlantic
and Indian Oceans. Significant differences in fish plumpness and individual growth rates were found,
suggesting that individuals associated with drifting FADs were less healthy than those in free schools.
Since stomach fullness indicated that tunas associated with FADs eat less than those in free schools,
the difference in growth rate and condition could be the consequence of altered feeding patterns. For
each species, significant changes in migratory direction and displacement rates were observed in the
presence of drifting FADs. These findings support the hypothesis that FADs act as a super-stimulus,
misleading tunas to make inappropriate habitat selection. However, further studies are required to
investigate the long-term effect of FADs on the entire life cycle of tunas.

37/1435: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mercurycontentincommercialpelagicfishanditsriskassessmentinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Mercury content in commercial pelagic fish and its risk assessment in the Western Indian Ocean
As top predators of pelagic food webs, large fish naturally bioaccumulate mercury (Hg). Determining Hg burdens in commercialized fish is essential considering the concern about effects of contaminants on human health and the legal thresholds that are therefore set for local consumption and/or exportation. Total Hg levels were measured in the muscular tissue of 183 fish of five commercially important species from the tropical zone of the Western Indian Ocean. All individuals were measured and sexed in order to study the impregnation of Hg with size and sex within each species. Values of Hg found in this part of the Indian Ocean were comparable to Hg in muscular tissue of the same species studied in other areas. The highest Hg levels were noted in Swordfish (Xiphias gladius) caught in waters surrounding Reunion Island (3.97 ± 2.67 μg.g−1 dry weight). Following the Swordfish, in decreasing order of Hg content, were the Yellowfin Tuna (Thunnus albacares) and the Skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), then the Common Dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) and the Wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri ). In the North of the Mozambique Channel, Swordfish had higher Hg levels than Yellowfin Tunas, and Dolphinfish exhibited intermediate Hg levels. The size of a fish was a determinating factor of its Hg burden, as was the species. Differences in size-normalized Hg levels were observed between the two study zones for Swordfish and Common Dolphinfish. Sex, in contrast, did not influence Hg levels suggesting that females and males have similar feeding habits. The muscular Hg levels presented here suggest that consumers of fish originating from theWestern Indian Ocean should limit themselves to one Swordfish based meal per week, or one fish meal a day if they choose to eat tuna or Common Dolphinfish.

38/1436: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/tunanaturalmortalityasafunctionoftheiragethebigeyetunathunnusobesuscase> : SCORE = 1.253645
Doc : Tuna natural mortality as a function of their age: the bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) case
This document reviews the age-specific levels and variability of natural mortality (Mi) in tuna
populations. Based on a review of the literature concerning this fundamental parameter, the U
shape curve of Mi expected for all living creatures as a function of their sizes and ages is
discussed. High levels of Mi are a biological rule for larvae and juveniles: minimal rates of Mi
tend to be observed before first spawning, followed by increasing Mi during spawning and for
older fishes due to biological senescence. The biological factors contributing to Mi variability
of tunas are presented and discussed. The paper later compares the profiles and levels of Mi
presently used for bigeye tuna by tuna Commissions. The biological validity of differences in
the Mi at juvenile ages between different species is discussed (for instance small yellowfin and
small bigeye). VPA are conducted on catch-at-age vectors typical of bigeye fisheries, using
various vectors of Mi. A subsequent yield-per-recruit analysis tends to confirm that the
potential negative effects of catching large amount of small bigeye tuna are highly dependent
on the Mi vector. It is concluded that scientists should better take this major biological
uncertainty for bigeye into account.

39/1437: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/growthofbigeyetunathunnusobesusintheeasternatlanticoceanfromtaggingrecapturedataandotolithsreadings> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Growth of bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) in the Eastern Atlantic ocean from tagging-recapture data and otoliths readings
Growth of bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) in the eastern Atlantic Ocean is studied from (1) 625
bigeye tagged and recaptured with a fork length (FL) range 37-124 cm, (2) otoliths collected on
108 bigeye in Dakar from which 83 were use to validate the growth ring deposit by oxytetracyclin
antibiotic injection, and (3) otoliths from 147 bigeye collected in Abidjan. For
otoliths, the sizes of Dakar bigeye range from 37 cm to 112 cm FL (almost all juveniles), those
from Abidjan from 29 cm to 190 cm (juveniles and adults). Growth curves obtained from the
two different sets of data are similar so all data are combined to give a single growth curve for
bigeye with K=0.180 yr-1
, L∞ = 217.3 cm and t0 = -0.709 year. The interest of this approach is
the confirmation of the daily rate for ring deposit on otoliths and the use of both tagging and
otoliths' reading to estimate growth parameters.

40/1438: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/behaviorofyellowfinthunnusalbacaresandbigeyetobesustunainanetworkoffishaggregatingdevicesfads> : SCORE = 1.2947589
Doc : Behavior of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) and bigeye (T-obesus) tuna in a network of fish aggregating devices (FADs)
The influence of multiple anchored fish aggregating devices (FADs) on the spatial behavior of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) and bigeye tuna (T. obesus) was investigated by equipping all thirteen FADs surrounding the island of Oahu (HI, USA) with automated sonic receivers ("listening stations") and intra-peritoneally implanting individually coded acoustic transmitters in 45 yellowfin and 12 bigeye tuna. Thus, the FAD network became a multi-element passive observatory of the residence and movement characteristics of tuna within the array. Yellowfin tuna were detected within the FAD array for up to 150 days, while bigeye tuna were only observed up to a maximum of 10 days after tagging. Only eight yellowfin tuna (out of 45) and one bigeye tuna (out of 12) visited FADs other than their FAD of release. Those nine fish tended to visit nearest neighboring FADs and, in general, spent more time at their FAD of release than at the others. Fish visiting the same FAD several times or visiting other FADs tended to stay longer in the FAD network. A majority of tagged fish exhibited some synchronicity when departing the FADs but not all tagged fish departed a FAD at the same time: small groups of tagged fish left together while others remained. We hypothesize that tuna (at an individual or collective level) consider local conditions around any given FAD to be representative of the environment on a larger scale (e.g., the entire island) and when those conditions become unfavorable the tuna move to a completely different area. Thus, while the anchored FADs surrounding the island of Oahu might concentrate fish and make them more vulnerable to fishing, at a meso-scale they might not entrain fish longer than if there were no (or very few) FADs in the area. At the existing FAD density, the 'Cyisland effect' is more likely to be responsible for the general presence of fish around the island than the FADs. We recommend further investigation of this hypothesis.

41/1439: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/scrstowardsclearandfirmiccatreportsonatlanticbluefintunastocksanopenlettertothebluefingroupandtothescrs> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : SCRS 2006: Towards clear and firm ICCAT reports on Atlantic bluefin tuna stocks? An open letter to the bluefin group and to the SCRS
This paper is based on the fact that the recent SCRS reports on bluefin tuna are not very clear
to show the gravity of the ICCAT problems in its statistics, research and assessment for this
species. The Atlantic bluefin population is now probably facing in the short or medium terms a
high risk of potentially irreversible over-fishing. However this severe risk is not clearly visible
in the recent SCRS analysis because of the difficulties to run a realistic stock assessment on
these stocks when most of the basic data are missing. This paper makes a recommendation that
SCRS should write its bluefin report using a non standard specific format using well selected
indicators and not its traditional VPA. This SCRS report should also show the serious
conservation risks presently faced by bluefin in the Atlantic. This paper also reaches conclusion
that a precautionary approach should be developed by SCRS in order to make firm
management recommendations that are need to conserve bluefin tuna.

42/1440: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimatedgrowthrateoftheskipjacktunakatsuwonuspelamisfromtaggingsurveysconductedinthesenegaleseareawithinametaanalysisframeworkcoll> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Estimated growth rate of the Skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis) from tagging surveys conducted in the Senegalese area (1996-1999) within a meta-analysis framework Coll
Tagging data obtained during the research program called MAC are reanalyzed for skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis), using the von Bertalanffy-Fabens' growth model. Tagging surveys were initiated during 1996-1999 on-board commercial baitboats in Mauritanian and Senegalese waters. The analyses include the Francis' maximum likelihood estimation approaches accounting for growth variability as a function of the expected growth increment. Bearing in mind the generally high negative correlation between estimates of L∞ and K, and instead of fixing L∞ at an arbitrary level, we expressed L∞ as a simple function of K within a meta-analysis framework. Based on previous estimates of growth parameters for skipjack in the world ocean, the fit of this bioenergetic growth equation gave the following relationship: L∞ = 70.607 K – 0.231. An alternative von Bertalanffy-Fabens' growth model was used in which to L∞ was substituted by this function of K. After the comparison of different error structure models, the estimates corresponding to the best fit under the AIC criteria were obtained for K = 0.251 and, after re-introducing this value in the bioenergetic equation, L∞ = 97.258. These results are not in agreement with growth parameter estimates obtained previously in the same part of the Atlantic Ocean but are consistent with the majority of growth estimates obtained by other investigators using tagging, hard part or length-frequency data. The application of the Francis variance model suggests that the variability of the growth increment of skipjack is not constant.

43/1441: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ayearclasscurveanalysistoestimatemortalityofatlanticbluefintunacaughtbythenorwegianfisheryfromto> : SCORE = 1.002916
Doc : A year-class curve analysis to estimate mortality of Atlantic bluefin tuna caught by the Norwegian fishery from 1956 to 1979
At the ICCAT symposium on bluefin tuna that held in Santander in April 2008, Tangen et al.(2009) presented a first quantification of the fishing effort deployed by the Norwegian fishery targeting bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea. Using a year-class curve analysis on the Norwegian CPUE, this document presents the first estimates of mortality rates of Atlantic bluefin tuna that migrated north from the mid-1950s to the late 1970s. The results indicate that bluefin tuna would have experienced a total mortality rate (Z) of 0.2 to 0.4 yr-1 (i.e. F at around 0.3 yr-1) during the late 1950s, 0.2 yr-1 during the 1960s and 0.1 yr-1 afterwards (assuming M=0.1 yr-1). These results appear to be rather robust and consistent with the VPA estimates from the 1970s and early 1980s, albeit slightly higher. The fishing mortality rates experienced by bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea during the period 1956-1979 were thus significant (so that local overfishing may have occurred, especially during the 1950s), but lower than F estimated by year-class curve analysis in recent years (i.e. 1992-2004). This comparison between two distant periods of time during which BFT was significantly (highly) exploited tend to confirm, with new pieces of information, the pessimistic conclusions of the 2006 stock assessment.

44/1442: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acomparisonofbigeyethunnusobesusstocksandfisheriesintheatlanticindianandpacificoceans> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : A comparison of bigeye (Thunnus obesus) stocks and fisheries in the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans
This paper presents a comparison of fisheries exploiting bigeye tuna. First, a comparison of the
bigeye catch trends by ocean is done. It shows in all areas a fast and quite synchronous
increase of bigeye catches since the early 1980s, followed by a stable or slowly declining catch
trend. Worldwide catches are due to a combination of low value bigeye taken by purse seiners
(mainly small sizes under FADs and of valuable large bigeye targeted by longliners for the
sashimi market. Sizes taken by the various gears in the three oceans are compared. Historical
changes of fishing zones are analysed. The relationship between catches of longliners and sea
surface temperatures is reviewed in each ocean. The main biological characteristics of bigeye
tuna such as growth, sex ratio-at-size and natural mortality, estimated in the various oceans
are compared. Bigeye stock status and the recent changes in the stock assessment diagnosis
done by the different tuna agencies, following the recent increases of catches, are examined
and discussed. Present limitations and uncertainties on the real stock status of bigeye
worldwide are discussed. It is concluded that despite more active research developed
worldwide during recent years on bigeye tunas, the assessment and prospects for management
of these heavily exploited stocks remain widely uncertain and an increasing source of concern.

45/1443: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evaluationoftheperformanceandrobustnessofvpabasedstockassessmentandmsybasedmanagementstrategytoprocesserrortheatlanticbluefintunacasestudy> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Evaluation of the performance and robustness of VPA-based stock assessment and MSY-based management strategy to process error : The Atlantic bluefin tuna case study
An integrative simulation framework was built to evaluate the consequences of variability attributable to changes in carrying capacity or the stock's migration pattern of Atlantic bluefin tuna on the ICCAT stock assessment and management procedures. We also evaluated the performances of stock assessment methods with respect to their ability to provide good estimates of MSY, FMSY and BMSY and tested the robustness of the current ICCAT management strategy to uncertainty about the true dynamics and historical exploitation levels. The results clearly indicate that the VPA performances were seriously impaired if the long-term variations in catches are due to changes in migration/availability. There is further considerable confounding between the underlying dynamics and increasing effort that makes it difficult to draw any inference about the actual dynamics based on commercial catch data. Reference points based on F (e.g., F0.1) were less biased and more precise than those based on yield and/or SSB and were also more robust to uncertainty about the true dynamics than absolute values of F and SSB. However, F0.1 cannot indicate past and current levels of exploitation relative to FMSY when there is uncertainty about the dynamics. Therefore, while reference points such as F0.1 may be good proxies for FMSY, the MSY concept may be difficult to make operational. A size limit strategy generates greater yields than the more sophisticated F0.1, but lower SSB. However, the performances of both strategies were strongly dependent on the period over which they are implemented relative to the intrinsic cycle of the population. We finally stressed that the performances and robustness of management strategies also depend on concrete objectives, such as fleet composition, gear selectivity and economic constraints.

46/1444: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofuncertaintiesinpastandpresentassessmentoftunastocks> : SCORE = 2.4566321
Doc : An overview of uncertainties in past and present assessment of tuna stocks


47/1445: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/wherehavethetagsgonesimulationoftagssintagasimplemodeltoestimatethenumberandsizeoftunastaggedbytherttpiothatarecurrentlystillalive> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Where have the tags gone? SImulatioN of TAGs (SINTAG): A simple model to estimate the number and size of tunas tagged by the RTTP-IO that are currently still alive.
The large scale Regional Tuna Tagging Programme in the Indian Ocean (RTTP-IO) has reported a 14% return rate of the 168.000 tuna tagged between 2005 and 2007. Approximately 96% of these returns have been reported from the purse seine fishery. This has lead to speculation that the tagged tuna have not yet reached sizes at which they could be caught by longliners (bigeye and yellowfin) or by the baitboat fishery (skipjack) A simple exponential decay and growth model has, however, indicated that this may not be the case, and tagged individuals should be available to these fisheries. It would thus appear that tagged tuna are not being reported by the longline and baitboat fisheries and an effort should be made to increase the level of tag reporting in those fleets in order to maximise the usefulness of the data obtained from the RTTP-IO.

48/1446: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fishbehaviourfromfishersknowledgethecasestudyoftropicaltunaarounddriftingfishaggregatingdevicesdfads> : SCORE = 1.144416
Doc : Fish behaviour from fishers' knowledge: the case study of tropical tuna around drifting fish aggregating devices (DFADs)
Purse-seining for tropical tuna is one of the most technologically advanced fisheries in the world. The purpose of this study was to apply local ecological knowledge (LEK) to assist in the planning of future in situ studies of fish behaviour around drifting fish aggregating devices (DFADs) by prioritizing research topics, thereby reducing the number of potential hypotheses to explore. Interviews of fishing masters of the purse-seine fleets working in the western Indian Ocean provided an alternate, independent, and previously unexplored source of behavioural information, specifically on the attraction, retention, and departure behaviours of tuna schools in relation to DFADs. Most fishing masters agreed that the maximum attraction distance of a DFAD is approximately 10 km and generally agreed to the following statements. Tuna form distinct schools under FADs, commonly segregated by species and size. The main reasons for the departure of tuna aggregations from FADs are changes in currents or FAD movements and location in relation to physical or oceanographic features. The number of actively monitored DFADs at sea in the western Indian Ocean was estimated at approximately 2100. Incorporating fishers into the planning and design stages of future research projects will facilitate collaborative and integrated approaches.

49/1447: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/tunamovementpatternspresentlyshownintheindianoceanbytagrecoveriesfromtheiottptaggingprogram> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Tuna movement patterns presently shown in the Indian Ocean by tag recoveries from the IOTTP tagging program
This paper examines the movement patterns shown by the recoveries of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tagged by dart tags during the IOTTP large scale tagging. This analysis is based on a large number of 6236 recoveries belonging to the 3 species. These 3 species show similar movement patterns, and these recovered tunas, tagged in a limited number of peculiar areas, are showing very wide and very fast movement patterns, skipjack being the more mobile species. As a result, the recoveries of the 3 species have been widely scattered in the entire fishing zone of purse seiners, a fishery with large catches and with very good reporting of tags recoveries. This rather extreme mobility of the tagged tunas is quite unique world wide and it remains widely  unexplained. This study also shows and discusses the strange lack of significant recoveries by the Maldivian skipjack fisheries. It also confirms the insufficient rate of tag reporting by longliners and by various coastal fisheries, that are still presently limiting the knowledge of the real movement patterns at a larger scale of yellowfin and bigeye in their global Indian Ocean habitat.

50/1448: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/resourcepartitioningwithinatropicalseabirdcommunitynewinformationfromstableisotopes> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Resource partitioning within a tropical seabird community: new information from stable isotopes
Characteristics of the tropical oceanic environment (low productivity, little seasonality) and poor diversity of tropical seabird foraging methods and prey relative to temperate and polar species suggest that tropical seabirds overall encompass a narrow range of isotopic niches, with large overlaps among species. To test this hypothesis, we examined the stable carbon (δ13C) and nitrogen (δ15N) isotopic composition of blood and feathers of 5 seabird species from Europa Island, Mozambique Channel. While differences were small, blood δ13C and δ15N values characterized 5 distinct and non-overlapping trophic niches during the breeding period. Seabirds used 2 distinct foraging areas (δ13C), one used by sooty tern Sterna fuscata and white-tailed tropicbird Phaethon lepturus and one used by red-footed booby Sula sula and great Fregata minor and lesser F. ariel frigatebirds. Seabird species overall encompassed less than 1 trophic level (δ15N), which is in agreement with a diet mainly based on flying fish and squid. Feather δ13C and δ15N values showed that the trophic structure of the community was different during the breeding and non-breeding (moulting) periods, suggesting a shift in the feeding ecology when adult birds were no longer central-place foragers. The stable isotope method underlined sex-related (red-footed booby) and age-related (great frigatebird immatures and adults) feeding strategies. It also suggested that breeding adults could feed themselves on different prey than those given to their chicks (sooty tern). Within the tropical pelagic ecosystem, seabirds overall shared the same trophic level as large predatory fishes (albacore, yellowfin and skipjack tunas), but they had lower δ15N values than the deeper-dwelling bigeye tuna and swordfish. We conclude that analyzing stable isotope values in blood and feathers appears to be a promising alternative method for investigating food and feeding ecology of tropical seabirds year round, and for determining sex- and age-related differences in their foraging strategies. A limitation of the method is the lack of information on marine isoscapes; future studies aimed at isotopically characterizing the tropical marine environment could help to associate consumer signatures to geographic origins.

51/1449: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/speciescompositionoftunaschoolscaughtunderfadsandonfreeschoolsduringtheperiodintheatlanticandindianoceans> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Species composition of tuna schools caught under FADs and on free schools during the 1991-2007 period, in the Atlantic and Indian oceans


52/1450: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fasstafullyagesizeandspacetimestructuredstatisticalmodelfortheassessmentoftunapopulations> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : FASST: a fully age-size and space-time structured statistical model for the assessment of tuna populations
This paper describes the model FASST. FASST is a fully structured age, size, space and time
stock assessment model. It is expressed as a deterministic system of partial differential
equations continuous in age, size and time. Space is represented using large discrete zones
interconnected by exchange rates. All the parameterizations used to represent recruitment,
growth, mortality and movements are chosen to be size-dependent and age independent.
Consequently, for simplicity purposes, the age dimension can be simplified. The model is
integrated numerically to simulate the stock dynamics. A complex process -and observationerror
framework is used to estimate the model parameters, and hence the past stock status, in
a Bayesian context. The model uses simultaneously most fishery data currently available for
tuna stock assessment such as catch by fleet in number and weight, length-frequency samples,
otolith analysis, tag-recapture data. It provides a new way to integrate that information into a
consistent stock assessment framework.

53/1451: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparedresponsesofpurseseineandlonglinetunafisheriestoclimaticanomaliesintheindianocean> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Compared responses of purse seine and longline tuna fisheries to climatic anomalies in the Indian Ocean, 1980-2005


54/1452: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8010912
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

55/1453: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anattempttoevaluatetherecentmanagementregulationsoftheeastatlanticandmediterraneanbluefintunastockthroughasimplesimulationmodel> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : An attempt to evaluate the recent management regulations of the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock through a simple simulation model
This manuscript proposes a simple simulation model to investigate the implications to the resources of the
recent management regulations adopted for the East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna stock. If
perfectly implemented, the new regulations on minimum size and closed fishing areas mostly lead to a
change in the selectivity pattern which moves towards older fish, so decreasing growth-overfishing. The
potential sustainable yields therefore considerably increase (almost double in comparison to those that
would be obtained without the new regulations) while the SSB can rapidly reach 20% of the virgin SSB. An
error of 20% in the implementation of these new regulations affects their efficiencies and does not seem to
allow the rebuilding of the SSB at a safe level. A significant increase in fishing mortality on older fish (ages
5+), due to the partial redeployment of the fisheries, affect even more strongly the rebuilding of the SSB. In
conclusion, the new regulations may appear sufficient to rebuild the SSB to a level > 20% of the virgin SSB,
if (and only if) they are perfectly implemented and don't generate any increase in the fishing effort on older
fish. In other words, control over all the fisheries that target BFT in the East Atlantic and the Mediterranean
is probably the key of the edifice.

56/1454: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleexploitationofamajortunaconcentrationintheindianocean> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Mesoscale exploitation of a major tuna concentration in the Indian Ocean
The paper analyzes the daily catch, fishing effort and fish size data of the purse seine fleet fishing in the
western Indian Ocean in February 2005, when a major concentration of tuna occurred and was heavily exploited by
this surface fishery. This tuna concentration event occurred over a period of just 12 days, in an area of about 3500
square nautical miles located to the west of the Seychelles. This small stratum produced a total catch of 22 000 t,
corresponding to 6.5% of the total fishing mortality of all adult yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) in the entire Indian
Ocean in 2005. Sets were made mainly on free schools and the catch mainly composed of large yellowfin tuna. The
average CPUE and the average catch per set were very large, 65 t and 85 t per fishing day, respectively. This “event” took
place in a precise area where a high concentration of chlorophyll had been localized 18 days before. The subsequent
concentration of tuna schools probably arose due to the high densities of their prey feeding on this large phytoplankton
biomass. This phytoplankton bloom was observed at the edge of an anticyclonic eddy, but its origin and its high density
cannot be fully explained by available environmental data. The adult yellowfin were probably at a reproductive stage
and actively feeding on the local food chain generated by the phytoplankton bloom. Such an event is extreme, but
typical of tuna purse seine fisheries where fleets often search for such tuna patches. These events play an important role
in tuna fisheries due to the increase in fishing effort and fishing efficiency of purses seiners, both of which increase their
impact on the resource. The fine scale study of such events and their improved integration into tuna stock assessments
is recommended.

57/1455: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/complexinterplaysamongpopulationdynamicsenvironmentalforcingandexploitationinfisheries> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Complex interplays among population dynamics, environmental forcing, and exploitation in fisheries
The patterns of variations in fisheries time series are known to result from a complex combination of species and fisheries dynamics all coupled with environmental forcing (including climate, trophic interactions, etc.). Disentangling the relative effects of these factors has been a major goal of fisheries science for both conceptual and management reasons. By examining the variability of 169 tuna and billfish time series of catch and catch per unit effort (CPUE) throughout the Atlantic as well as their linkage to the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), we find that the importance of these factors differed according to the spatial scale. At the scale of the entire Atlantic the patterns of variations are primarily spatially structured, whereas at a more regional scale the patterns of variations were primarily related to the fishing gear. Furthermore, the NAO appeared to also structure the patterns of variations of tuna time series, especially over the North Atlantic. We conclude that the patterns of variations in fisheries time series of tuna and billfish only poorly reflect the underlying dynamics of these fish populations; they appear to be shaped by several successive embedded processes, each interacting with each other. Our results emphasize the necessity for scientific data when investigating the population dynamics of large pelagic fishes, because CPUE fluctuations are not directly attributable to change in species' abundance.

58/1456: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/tunamanagementandoffshoreclosedareas> : SCORE = 2.866071
Doc : Tuna management and offshore closed areas


59/1457: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/estimateofthenonlineargrowthrateofyellowfintunathunnusalbacaresintheatlanticandintheindianoceanfromtaggingdata> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Estimate of the non-linear growth rate of yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) in the Atlantic and in the Indian Ocean from tagging data.
In the lack of a satisfactory formulation for the two-stanza growth curve of yellowfin
(Thunnus albacores), estimates of growth rate by size class can be an alternative as an input for
integrated models. From tagging data collected in the Atlantic and in the Indian Ocean, we show
however that for growth rate that does not follow a classical linear decreasing trend over size, simple
estimates of length increments by size are biased due to an averaging effect of the time spent at liberty.
We simulate length at recapture to illustrate the magnitude of the bias which can be expected
depending on the duration of the time at liberty. Our results suggest that for large time at liberty
growth rates by size are smoothed in such a way that the Von Bertalanffy model could erroneously be
considered as a good alternative. With the aim of removing this bias we used a generalized additive
model (GAM) to calculate an instantaneous growth rate by size (i.e., fixing time at liberty at 1 day at
sea). The predicted growth rates by size are lower than the apparent growth rates but are similar in
magnitude and in shape with observed growth rates for moderate times at liberty (< 90 days at sea). In
the light of our findings, we suggest that hard part reading analyses, which in general reject the twostanza
growth assumption, could have been affected by the same type of bias.

60/1458: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bluefinfishingbysportfishermenoffthetrebeurdenbaynorthernbrittanyduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Bluefin fishing by sport fishermen off the Trebeurden Bay, Northern Brittany, during the 1946 - 1953 period
This paper describes and analyses the short history of the giant bluefin seasonal sport fishery that took place in the Trebeurden Bay, Brittany, France, after World War 2. This fishery was clearly linked with a now vanished sardine local resource and artisanal fishery, and it was targeting giant bluefin that were probably migrating back from the North Sea and Norway. The history of these sardine and tuna fisheries is discussed in relation with the potential tuna migrations. The end of the bluefin fishery in 1953 was probably related to the local extinction of the sardine stock. This event confirms the great interest to analyse data from bluefin sport fisheries, and the paper recommends doing more data mining targeting the recovery of these historical sport fishery data.

61/1459: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwpeb> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : IOTC WPEB - 2008/016
Data collected through 20 observer fishing trips were used to quantify
the number of silky sharks taken as bycatch by the French tuna
purse seine fishery of the Western Indian Ocean. 1,385 immature
silky sharks of which 85% was discarded at sea and 15% retained
aboard, were observed as bycatch during 685 fishing sets observed
from October 2005 to April 2008. Zero-inflated regression models
fitted with Bayesian methods were used to explain silky shark
bycatch as a function of fishing mode (free vs. fishing aggregating
device-associated (FAD) schools), area, and season. Model results
showed that silky sharks occurred in 24% of the fishing sets with an
expected number of sharks per set estimated to be 2.02 ± 0.05. The
3 covariates were found to significantly explain both the presence
and number of silky sharks caught by the French purse seiners. FAD
was shown to have a strong positive effect on the number of silky
sharks caught, an expected value of 4.3 sharks being taken in FADassociated
schools versus 0.3 shark in free schools. There were
significant differences in silky shark bycatch between seasons and
areas with higher bycatch than average in July-September and in the
South-East Seychelles area while fewer sharks were expected to be
caught in the North Somali area. Results are discussed within the
context of the ecosystem approach to fisheries for the analysis of
ecosystem effects of fishing.

62/1460: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fishingactivityoftunapurseseinersestimatedfromvmsdataandvalidatedbyobserversdata> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Fishing activity of tuna purse-seiners estimated from VMS data and validated by observers' data.


63/1461: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/depredationonpelagiclonglinesintheindianoceanananalysisofthesoviethistoricaldatabaseontunaresearch> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Depredation  on pelagic longlines in the Indian Ocean: an analysis of the Soviet historical database (1961-1989) on tuna research.


64/1462: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingfishcommunitiesassociatedwithdriftingfishaggregatingdevicesfadsinthewesternindianoceanusingunderwatervisualsurveys> : SCORE = 0.91553277
Doc : Characterizing fish communities associated with drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean using underwater visual surveys
We adapted a visual census method, mainly used in demersal and reef fish studies, to characterize fish communities associated to drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean. Drifting FAD associated fishes from both equatorial (Seychelles) and tropical waters (Reunion Island) were examined by divers. A total of 32 species (belonging to 16 families) were observed associated with drifting FADs in equatorial waters, and 24 species (14 families) were found around FADs in tropical waters. Twenty species were found in both regions. The highest number of species observed at a single FAD was 18 (12 ± 2, mean ± SD) in equatorial and 13 (10 ± 3) in tropical waters, not counting circumnatant species loosely associated with the FAD. Some species like Kyphosus vaigiensis, Canthidermis maculata, Elagatis bipinnulata, Acanthocybium solandri and Coryphaena hippurus were observed on all or most of the surveys. In this study, the contribution in biomass of the 18 common species associated with drifting FADs (but excluding circumnatant species), represents more than 98% of the biomass. The overall biomass values of closely associated species remains well below tuna biomass estimates for circumnatant tuna schools at FADs, estimated as high as 200 tons. The species that most significantly contribute to the by-catch in tuna purse-seines logically match those that showing the highest biomass values in our surveys (Carcharhinus spp., Elagatis bipinnulata, Coryphaena hippurus, Canthidermis maculata, and Acanthocybium solandri). One of the most abundant and ubiquitous species in our study was the spotted oceanic triggerfish Canthidermis maculata that sometimes formed massive schools of many thousands individuals around the drifting FADs. Future research is needed to explore the role of such non tuna species in the attraction and aggregation processes of tuna around drifting FADs.

65/1463: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofthegrowthparametersoftheskipjacktunakatsuwonuspelamisamongareasintheeasternatlanticanalysisfromtaggingdatawithinametaanalysisapproach> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Variability of the growth parameters of the skipjack tuna (/Katsuwonus pelamis/) among areas in the eastern Atlantic: Analysis from tagging data within a meta-analysis approach
In order to assess the latitudinal variability in growth of the eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), conventional tagging data collected by the International Commission of the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) since the 1960s are reanalyzed using a modified version of the von Bertalanffy-Fabens growth model. An analysis of the latitudinal patterns of recaptures showed that the lowest mixing rate between northern and southern regions was evidenced at 10◦ N Latitude. Since it is theoretically admitted that growth parameters L∞ and K are negatively correlated, we substituted L∞ into the growth equation model by a simple bioenergetic function of K fitted from existing studies on skipjack growth parameters. The likelihood for the meta-analysis of growth is combined with the likelihoods from the two regional tagging data with the aim of estimating simultaneously K in both areas and to transfer adequately uncertainties associated with the different data sets. From this study, it was showed that fish inhabiting waters south of 10◦ N latitude can be expected to grow generally larger but at slower rate than in the North (L∞ = 112.34 cm vs. 89.38 cm, and K = 0.14 vs. 0.38, respectively). Our results are consistent with the range of growth estimates obtained in the Atlantic Ocean and in different parts of the World's oceans. In contrast, the estimates of L∞ and K done in the Senegalese region in the 1980s within the framework of the Skipjack Year Program, and traditionally applied by ICCAT, are not supported by the present study. The findings concerning the phenotypic plasticity exhibited by growth of skipjack among latitudinal regions suggest potential differences in fish population productivity and consequently imply that non-conventional stock assessment methods such as catch-at size/growth transition matrix per region could be used to assess the responses of skipjack to exploitation.

66/1464: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anupdatedanalysisoftagsheddingbytropicaltunasintheindianocean> : SCORE = 1.0637529
Doc : An Updated Analysis of Tag-Shedding by Tropical Tunas in the Indian Ocean.
Tag shedding experiment was conducted during the Regional Tuna tagging
Project-Indian Ocean by double-tagging part of the tuna released (27,850
double tags with 4,650 recoveries) with the objective of assessing the tag
shedding rate (type-1 shedding (immediate shedding and tagging-induced
mortality) and tag-2 shedding (continuous shedding and tag-induced
mortality)). This rate was assessed by estimating α and λ of the probability
of tag retention equation Q(t) = α [β/(β+λt)]β). For SKJ α = 0.987, λ (per
year) = 0.015; for YFT α = 0.977, λ (per year) = 0.041 and for BET α =
0.996, λ (per year) = 0.024. These results are comparable to others obtained
from large-scale tropical tuna tagging project.

67/1465: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climatevariabilityfishandfisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Climate variability, fish and fisheries
Fish population variability and fisheries activities are closely linked to weather and climate dynamics. While weather at sea directly affects fishing, environmental variability determines the distribution, migration, and abundance of fish. Fishery science grew up during the last century by integrating knowledge from oceanography, fish biology, marine ecology and fish population dynamics, largely focused on the great northern hemisphere fisheries. During this period, understanding and explaining interannual fish recruitment variability became a major focus for fisheries oceanographers. Yet, the close link between climate and fisheries is best illustrated by the effect of 'unexpected' events – i.e. non-seasonal, and sometimes catastrophic – on fish exploitation, such as those associated with the El Niño/ Southern Oscillation (ENSO). The observation that fish populations fluctuate at decadal time scales and show patterns of synchrony while being geographically separated drew attention to oceanographic processes driven by low frequency signals, as reflected by indices tracking large scale climate patterns such as the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) and the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO). This low frequency variability was first observed in catch fluctuations of small pelagic fish (anchovies, sardines), but similar effects soon emerged for larger fish such as salmons, various groundfish species, and some tuna species. Today, the availability of long time series of observations combined with major scientific advances in sampling and modelling the oceans ecosystems allows fisheries science to investigate processes generating variability in abundance, distribution and dynamics of fish species at daily, decadal and even centennial scales. These studies are central to the research programme of GLOBEC (Global Ocean Ecosystems Dynamics). In this review, we present examples of relationships between climate variability and fisheries at these different time-scales for species covering various marine ecosystems ranging from equatorial to sub-arctic regions. We describe some of the known mechanisms linking climate variability and exploited fish populations, as well as some leading hypotheses, and their implications for their management and for the modelling of their dynamics. We conclude with recommendations for collaborative work between climatologists,
oceanographers and fisheries scientists to resolve some of the outstanding problems in the development of sustainable fisheries.

68/1466: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/catchandeffortdataonsoviettunapurseseinefisheriesintheindianoceanbasedondailyradioreportsdatabase> : SCORE = 1.013309
Doc : Catch and effort data on Soviet tuna purse seine fisheries in the Indian Ocean based on daily radio reports database.
General description of YugNIRO database on Soviet tuna purse seine fisheries in the Indian Ocean is presented. Principal sources of the information for database were daily radio reports on operations and on catch composition of purse seiners. Vessel types, temporal schedule of its activities, total catch and data quality, database structure is described. This paper is a supplement for a fine-scale (1-degree/month) catch statistics and activities dataset, presented to IOTC Secretariat.

69/1467: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/studylooksatwaylonglinescantargettuna> : SCORE = 1.7371012
Doc : Study looks at way longlines can target tuna
Researchers have concluded the first phase of a study investigating ways that Seychelles' longliners can better target tuna.

70/1468: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/applicationoftheproceanmodeltotheeasternatlanticskipjackkatsuwonuspelamistunafishery> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Application of the Procean Model to the eastern atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) tuna fishery
The PROCEAN (PRoduction Catch / Effort ANalysis) model is a multi-fleet biomass dynamic
model developed in a Bayesian framework to conduct stock assessments based on catch and
effort time series data. PROCEAN was applied to the eastern component of the Atlantic
skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) to assess the current status of the stock and provide reference
points to fishery managers. Data included 8 time series of catch and effort data spanning from
1969 to 2006 and mostly standardised based on generalized linear modelling techniques.
Informative priors and constraints for some parameters were used to allow the model to
converge. Model fits were generally good but indicated increasing trends in the residuals for
some fishing fleets. Results suggested that the eastern Atlantic skipjack stock would be
underexploited, with a biomass in 2006 equal to 1.8 times the biomass at the maximum
sustainable yield (MSY) and a fishing mortality in 2006 equal to 30% of the fishing mortality at
MSY (FMSY). A sensitivity analysis performed to account for uncertainty in some input
parameters showed that FMSY estimates were robust to parameter changes while MSY estimates
were sensitive to the prior distribution for MSY. Based on the different model runs, the MSY
was estimated to be comprised between 152,000 and 185,000 t. The use of random walks on
catchability was useful for tracking changes in catchability and associated increasing fishing
power for some baitboat fishing fleets targeting skipjack.

71/1469: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/descriptionoffisheriestropicaltuna> : SCORE = 3.2755096
Doc : Description of fisheries: Tropical tuna


72/1470: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/dataflowinthetropicaltunafisheries> : SCORE = 2.866071
Doc : Data flow in the tropical tuna fisheries


73/1471: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/commontrendsmodelincatchperunitofeffortforthetropicaltunas> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Common trends model in catch per unit of effort for the tropical tunas
We explored the usefulness of Dynamic factor analysis (DFA) to detect common patterns in the sets of CPUEs for Atlantic yellowfin (Thunnus albacores) and for eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), respectively. For yellowfin, the most appropriate model, in terms of AIC, identified two common trends. The 10 yellowfin CPUE series could be divided into 3 groups based on factor loadings. The grouping corresponds in part to the geographic location of the fisheries (i.e., the western Atlantic area for group 1 and the northeastern tropical Atlantic region for group 2). The fact that the first group is constituted by CPUEs obtained from 3 different fishing gears (pole and line, purse seine and longline), operating at different depth levels, suggests that the regional trend reflects more a sub-population response to a local exploitation rate than to environmental conditions. In light of the present results, the CPUEs should be combined respectively into two regional indices before performing a unique combined index. For skipjack, results are less conclusive and further studies with explanatory factors are required to account for the fact that this species is seldom targeted by the tuna fisheries.

74/1472: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/postbreedingmovementsoffrigatebirdstrackedwithsatellitetelemetry> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Postbreeding movements of frigatebirds tracked with satellite telemetry
Using satellite telemetry, we studied the postbreeding movements of Great (Fregata minor) and Magnificent Frigatebirds (F. magnificens) at two breeding colonies in the Indian and Atlantic Oceans. After breeding failure, 67% of the birds with satellite transmitters remained on the breeding colonies and continued to perform foraging trips similar to those undertaken while breeding. Two Magnificent Frigatebirds that bred at a colony off the coast of French Guiana moved west along the coast of South America, and one of the two reached Trinidad 1400 km away. One Great Frigatebird moved 4400 km from Europa Island in the Mozambique Channel to the Maldive Islands. It roosted there for at least four months, making foraging trips of up to 240 km, mainly to an area known for its high concentration of tuna. These results show that frigatebirds are able to make rapid and directed long-distance dispersal movements to other colonies or roosting sites, although the majority of birds remain based on breeding colonies.

75/1473: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/historicaldatabaseonsoviettunalonglinetunaresearchintheindianandatlanticoceansfirstresultsofyugnironmfsdatarescueproject> : SCORE = 0.62052256
Doc : Historical database on Soviet tuna longline tuna research in the Indian and Atlantic oceans (first results of YugNIRO-NMFS data rescue project)
YugNIRO (formerly AzCherNIRO, till 1988), Kerch, Ukraine started tuna research in the Indian Ocean in early 1960-ies and such studies continued till early 1990-ies. For research purposes medium-sized fishing trawlers converted for pelagic longlining were used. Recent data inventory accounted about 130 research, searching, and fishing pelagic longline cruises for 1961-1989 targeted tunas (generally Thunnus), billfishes (Makaira, Tetrapturus, Xiphias gladius), pelagic sharks (Carcharhinus, Isurus, Alopias, Prionace glauca, Galeocerdo cuvier). Other pelagic species were recorded as bycatch. More than 5200 longline sets with about 2.5 millions nominal hooks were shot. For every research cruise the following data were colleted on set by set basis: number of hooks, hooks distribution by depth, total catch, and catch by species. Almost all the fish caught were measured, weighed, and analyzed. Estimated catch depth of every fish was recorded. Environmental data and MBT station data generally available. Due to lack of computer equipment and limited funding throughout years of data sampling this valuable data were stored on paper as logbooks of longline catches and biological analysis. In spite the careful treatment by YugNIRO personnel, there were a danger of loss for these unique data due to natural deterioration of media under time impact, accidents, natural disasters, other extraordinary situations, etc. In late 2002 under support of NMFS and NFWF data “rescue” project which principal goals were preparation of computer database and make this data available for joint YugNIRO/SWFSC analysis and for IOTC and ICCAT was started. “Rescue” is carried out by digitizing of the data, which exist only as manuscripts, in order to store them on computer media in the form of relational database. This project is at the final stage at presents, since most of the data available are in the digital form. These data represent unique dataset for Indian Ocean which could be used as an independent long-term biological and fisheries database as well as additional information to databases of IPTP/IOTC and national databases of other research center. Data and database description, database structure, first results of the database creation, data digitizing, and analyses, and potential access to the data is presented in this paper.

76/1474: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/bycatchanddiscardsoftheeuropeanpurseseinetunafisheryintheindianoceanestimationandcharacteristicsfortheperiod> : SCORE = 1.5353951
Doc : By-catch and discards of the European purse seine tuna fishery in the Indian Ocean. Estimation and characteristics for the 2003-2007 period
By-catch and tuna discards estimation and characteristics for the various species groups are presented for the European purse seine tuna fishery (France and Spain) for the period 2003-2007. Data were collected through French and Spanish observer programs representing a total of 1,958 observed fishing sets. Total by-catch and tuna discards estimation were derived from a stratification based on fishing mode, seasons (quarters) and spatial area. The estimation relied on raising factors based on major commercial tuna catch expressed in tons per 1000 t of tuna landed. Total tuna discards and by-catch was estimated to be about 9,585 t corresponding to 35.5 t per 1000 t of tuna landed. Tuna discards represents 54 % (19.2 t/1000 t) of the total amount, followed by fishes (33.7 %, 12.0 t/1000 t), sharks (10.1, 3.6 t/1000 t), billfishes (1.5 %, 0.5 t/1000 t), and rays (0.7 %, 0.2 t/1000 t). By-catch species composition, main species length and sex structure, and percentage of utilization are also presented. Total by-catch estimates and ratios are compared with those previously published in the literature. The issue raised by the choice of a consistent extrapolation method is finally discussed

77/1475: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteontheperiodusedtorunthescrssequentialpopulationanalysisontropicaltuna> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Note on the period used to run the SCRS sequential population analysis on tropical tuna


78/1476: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

79/1477: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

80/1478: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofyellowfinthunnusalbacarestunastocksfisheriesandstockstatusworldwide> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : An overview of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) tuna stocks, fisheries and stock status worldwide
This paper makes a comparison of yellowfin
stocks worldwide, taking into account the biology of the
species as estimated in each ocean and the changes and
trends in the yellowfin fisheries observed in each ocean. This
paper presents and discusses a wide range of data and
figures comparing yellowfin stocks and fisheries in the four
« oceans », namely the Atlantic, Indian, Eastern and Western
Pacific. It shows an overview of the changes observed in each
ocean for the main yellowfin fisheries, longliners and purse
seiners: sizes of area fished, CPUE, changes in size
distribution and average weights, etc. The major biological
parameters estimated in each ocean by scientists, such as
natural mortality at age, spawning, sex ratio and growth are
presented and discussed. The methods used to assess
yellowfin stocks and the methodological uncertainties in the
yellowfin stock assessment are compared and discussed. The
conclusion is that it remains difficult to fully understand if the
increased catches of yellowfin observed world wide in most
oceans should be explained (1) by the effects of increasing
fishing zones, (2) by increased fishing effort and/or increased
fishing efficiency (3) and/or by increased biological productivity
of oceans or by a combination of these parameters. The
serious uncertainty in the understanding of the real
relationship between the longline and purse seine fisheries are
also discussed.

81/1479: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/madepreliminaryinformationonanewecprojecttoproposemeasurestomitigateadverseimpactsofopenoceanfisheriestargetinglargepelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : MADE: preliminary information on a new EC project to propose measures to mitigate adverse impacts of open ocean fisheries targeting large pelagic fish
A particular attention has been paid worldwide on longline fisheries as they catch considerable amount of by-catch (seabirds, turtles, sharks, etc.). Seabird and turtles by-catch mitigation methods have now been established in many fisheries worldwide, but similar efforts must be put to reduce by-catch of sharks. In the same ecosystems, another issue attracts the attention of international tuna commissions: the use of drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs). These FADs are responsible for major catches of juvenile tuna and non target pelagic species (sharks). Finally, the effects of thousands of FADs released regularly in the tropical oceans are unknown, and must be studied to estimate if they impact the biology of pelagic species. The European open ocean tropical and Mediterranean pelagic fishery (Spain, France, Portugal, Italy, Greece) is one of the main sources of catch, income and employment for the European fishery, with interactions with many developing countries. The MADE project was set up to develop measures to mitigate adverse impacts of fisheries targeting large pelagic fish in the open ocean: purse seiners using FADs and longliners. This 4-year project, started in mid-2008 within the 7th EC Framework Programme, and is a cooperative research carried out under the coordination of IRD, including 13 scientific institutions belonging to 6 European Countries and 2 ICPC countries in three different areas (Mediterranean Sea, Atlantic Ocean and Indian Ocean). Two main categories of mitigation measures will be studied: spatial management issues (e.g. closure areas) and technical solutions to reduce by-catch in these fisheries. The main concept of MADE is to follow a multi-disciplinary and comparative approach, combining biological and technological studies with economical analyses in different sites (Indian and Atlantic oceans, Mediterranean Sea), with a particular effort to closely associate fishers.

82/1480: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysingmultipletimeseriesandextendingsignificancetestinginwaveletanalysis> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Analysing multiple time series and extending significance testing in wavelet analysis
In nature, non-stationarity is rather typical, but the number of statistical tools allowing for non-stationarity remains rather limited. Wavelet analysis is such a tool allowing for non-stationarity but the lack of an appropriate test for statistical inference as well as the difficulty to deal with multiple time series are 2 important shortcomings that limits its use in ecology. We present 2 approaches to deal with these shortcomings. First, we used 1/f beta models to test cycles in the wavelet spectrum against a null hypothesis that takes into account the highly autocorrelated nature of ecological time series. To illustrate the approach, we investigated the fluctuations in bluefin tuna trap catches with a set of different null models. The 1/f beta models approach proved to be the most consistent to discriminate significant cycles. Second, we used the maximum covariance analysis to compare, in a quantitative way, the time-frequency patterns (i.e. the wavelet spectra) of numerous time series. This approach built cluster trees that grouped the wavelet spectra according to their time-frequency patterns. Controlled signals and time series of sea surface temperature (SST) in the Mediterranean Sea were used to test the ability and power of this approach. The results were satisfactory and clusters on the SST time series displayed a hierarchical division of the Mediterranean into a few homogeneous areas that are known to display different hydrological and oceanic patterns. We discuss the limits and potentialities of these methods to study the associations between ecological and environmental fluctuations.

83/1481: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/asfbworkshopcuttingedgetechnologiesinfishandfisheriesscience> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : ASFB Workshop : Cutting-Edge Technologies in Fish and Fisheries Science
Pelagic fish such as tropical tunas are known to aggregate arount floating objects also called fish aggregating devices (FADs). FADs have assumed a hugely important role in the industrial fisheries of the world - well over half of the world's tuna catch is now harvested from around drifting FADs. These drifting FADs usually occur in remote areas, difficult to access, which explains why this phenomenon has rarely been adressed by scientists.

84/1482: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/effectsofthegeardeploymentstrategyandcurrentshearonpelagiclonglineshoaling> : SCORE = 0.62052256
Doc : Effects of the gear deployment strategy and current shear on pelagic longline shoaling
Historical longline catch per unit effort (CPUE) constitutes the major time series used in tuna stock assessment to followthe trend in abundance since the beginning of the large-scale tuna fisheries. The efficiency and species composition of a longline fishing operations essentially depends on the overlap in the vertical and spatial distribution between hooks and species habitat. Longline catchability depends on the vertical distribution of hooks and the aim of our paper was to analyse principal factors affecting the deviation of observed longline hook depths from predicted values. Since observed hook depth is usually shallower than predicted, this deviation is called longline shoaling.We evaluate the accuracy of hook depth distribution estimated from a theoretical catenary model commonly used in longline CPUE standardizations. Temperature-depth recorders (TDRs) were deployed on baskets of a monitored longline. Mainline shapes and maximum fishing depths were similar to gear configurations commonly used to target both yellowfin and bigeye tuna by commercial longliners in the central part of the South Pacific Ocean. Our working hypothesis assumes that the maximum fishing depth reached by the mainline depends on the gear configuration (sag ratio, mainline length per basket), the fishing tactics (bearing of the setting) and environmental variables characterizing water mass dynamics (wind stress, current velocity and shear). Based on generalized additive models (GAMs) simple transformations are proposed to account for the non-linearity between the shoaling and explanatory variables. Then, generalized linear models (GLMs) were fit to model the effects of explanatory variables on the longline shoaling. Results indicated that the shoaling (absolute aswell as relative) was significantly influenced by (1) the shape of the mainline (i.e., the tangential angle), which is the strongest predictor, and (2) the current shear and the direction of setting. Geometric forcing (i.e. transverse versus in-line) between the environment and the longline set is shown for the first time from in situ experimental fishing data. Results suggest that a catenary model that does not take these factors into consideration provides a biased estimate of the vertical distribution of hooks and must be used with caution in CPUEs standardization methods. Since catchability varies in time and space we discuss how suitable data could be routinely collected onboard commercial fishing vessels in order to estimate longline catchability for stock assessments.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved..

85/1483: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/timeseriesanalysisoftunaandswordfishcatchesandclimatevariabilityintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Time series analysis of tuna and swordfish catches and climate variability in the Indian Ocean (1968-2003)
We analysed the patterns of variation that characterize 33 catch time series of large pelagic fishes exploited by the Japanese and Taiwanese longline fisheries in the Indian Ocean from 1968 to 2003. We selected four species, the yellowfin (Thunnus albacares), the bigeye (T. obesus), the albacore (T. alalunga), and the swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and aggregated data into five biogeographic provinces of Longhurst (2001).We carried out wavelet analyses, an efficient method to study non-stationary time series, in order to get the time-scale patterns of each signals. We then compared and grouped the different wavelet spectra using a multivariate analysis to identify the factors (species, province or fleet) that may influence their clustering. We also investigated the associations between catch time series and a large-scale climatic index, the DipoleMode Index (DMI), using cross wavelet analyses. Our results evidenced that the geographical province is more important than the species level when analyzing the 33 catch time series in the tropical Indian Ocean. The DMI further impacted the variability of tuna and swordfish catch time series at several periodic bands and at different temporal locations, and we demonstrated that the geographic locations modulated its impact.We discussed the consistency of time series fluctuations that reflect embedded information and complex interactions between biological processes, fishing strategies and environmental variability at different scales.

86/1484: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.

87/1485: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/tunamanagementandclosedareas> : SCORE = 1.2410451
Doc : Tuna management and closed areas
This document discusses the potential use of marine protected areas as a management tool for
tuna fisheries and for the conservation of offshore marine pelagic ecosystems. Its conclusion is
in favour of creating well selected and large MPAs, as they should have a positive impact in
both fields of conservation and investigations upon the functioning of pelagic ecosystem. The
major uncertainties faced in the choice of these potential MPAs are discussed. The movement
patterns of tunas and of fishing fleets in relation with these MPAs are among the major
uncertainties examined. The paper reviews the factors that should be studied in the choice of
these MPAs and a set of potential MPAs are proposed as a basis for discussion. The
recommendation is that at least these prospects should be discussed by the various tuna RFOs,
preferably in a join forum.

88/1486: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anadvectiondiffusionreactionsizestructuredfishpopulationdynamicsmodelcombinedwithastatisticalparameterestimationprocedureapplicationtotheindianoceanskipjacktunafishery> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : An advection-diffusion-reaction size-structured fish population dynamics model combined with a statistical parameter estimation procedure: Application to the Indian Ocean skipjack tuna fishery
We develop an advection-di®usion size-structured ¯sh population
dynamics model and apply it to simulate the skipjack tuna population in the
Indian Ocean. The model is fully spatialized, and movements are parame-
terized with oceanographical and biological data; thus it naturally reacts to
environment changes. We ¯rst formulate an initial-boundary value problem
and prove existence of a unique positive solution. We then discuss the numer-
ical scheme chosen for the integration of the simulation model. In a second
step we address the parameter estimation problem for such a model. With
the help of automatic di®erentiation, we derive the adjoint code which is used
to compute the exact gradient of a Bayesian cost function measuring the dis-
tance between the outputs of the model and catch and length frequency data.
A sensitivity analysis shows that not all parameters can be estimated from the
data. Finally twin experiments in which pertubated parameters are recovered
from simulated data are successfully conducted.

89/1487: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/interpretingcatchperuniteffortdatatoassesthestatusofindividualstocksandcommunities> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Interpreting catch per unit effort data to asses the status of individual stocks and communities
Despite being one of the most common pieces of information used in assessing the status of
fish stocks, relative abundance indices based on catch per unit effort (cpue) data are notoriously
problematic. Raw cpue is seldom proportional to abundance over a whole exploitation
history and an entire geographic range, because numerous factors affect catch rates.
One of the most commonly applied fisheries analyses is standardization of cpue data to remove
the effect of factors that bias cpue as an index of abundance. Even if cpue is standardized
appropriately, the resulting index of relative abundance, in isolation, provides limited
information for management advice or about the effect of fishing. In addition, cpue data
generally cannot provide information needed to assess and manage communities or ecosystems.
We discuss some of the problems associated with the use of cpue data and some
methods to assess and provide management advice about fish populations that can help
overcome these problems, including integrated stock assessment models, management strategy
evaluation, and adaptive management. We also discuss the inappropriateness of using
cpue data to evaluate the status of communities. We use tuna stocks in the Pacific Ocean as
examples.

90/1488: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fadiofishaggregatingdevicesasintrumentedobservatoriesofpelagicecosystemsaeuropeanunionfundedprojectondevelopmentofnewobservationalinstrumentsandthebehavioroffisharoundfads> : SCORE = 0.62052256
Doc : FADIO (Fish Aggregating Devices as Intrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) : a European Union funded project on development of new observational instruments and the behavior of fish around FADs
Associative behavior is a major component of the life of pelagic fish. Tropical tuna and other
species are often found in association with floating objects, with other animals, and with topographic
features such as seamounts. Because fish are more abundant, occur in larger schools, or are easier to catch
when aggregated, fishermen extensively use these associations to increase their catches. More than 50%
of the world tuna catches are made from schools associated with floating objects.
There is a clear need for new technologies to study these associations and to propose innovative
methods of management. The European Union has funded a project to study the requirements of future
assessment tools and to develop prototypes. The project: FADIO1 (Fish Aggregating Devices as
Instrumented Observatories of pelagic ecosystems) has conducted five extensive field surveys of the
Western Indian Ocean in conjunction with the large-scale purse seine fishery operating on drifting FADs
that operates in this region.
The objectives of FADIO are to develop new observation and assessment tools and collect data
on the behavior of pelagic fish around drifting FADs. Two categories of instruments are being developed
in collaboration with manufacturers: (1) autonomous buoys equipped with 360º sonar and cameras to
observe aggregations, acoustic receivers to detect individuals carrying electronic tags and satellite uplinks
for both, (2) new electronic tags with ecological sensors. Various field experiments are conducted to
assist in the development of these prototypes. During these scientific cruises, different instruments and
methods are used to document the behavior of associated species concurrently resident on the same FAD,
including: fishing and acoustic tagging, passive and active acoustic surveys, and underwater visual
census. Those observations, combined together, provide valuable insights in the dynamics of FAD
aggregations.
These instruments can be used in the future (i) to build the foundation for future observatories of
pelagic ecosystems, using FADs as scientific platforms for observation and data collection, (ii) to
understand the effects of FADs on tuna and other associated species, even in remote areas, (iii) to help
reducing by-catch around FADs. FADIO began in 2003 and will end in Oct. 2006, with an exposition and
workshop at the Oceanographic Museum in Monaco.

91/1489: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragefaunainthedietofthreelargepelagicfishlancetfishswordfishandyellowfintunainthewesternequatorialindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Forage fauna in the diet of three large pelagic fish (lancetfish, swordfish and yellowfin tuna) in the western equatorial Indian Ocean
Prey composition and resource partitioning were investigated among three large pelagic fish predators, yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox), in a poorly known oceanic area, the western Indian Ocean. The contents of 380 non-empty stomachs were analysed from specimens caught with longlines during scientific cruises carried out from 2001 to 2003. Diet data were processed by occurrence, mean proportion by number, wet weight, and mean proportion by reconstituted weight. Crustaceans, dominated by the swimming crab Charybdis smithii and the stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris, were the major food source of lancetfish. Cannibalism was also significant for that species. Yellowfin tunas preyed upon a large diversity of mesopelagic fishes, crustaceans (C. smithii and crab larvae) and cephalopods (the ommastrephid Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis). Mesopelagic fishes (Cubiceps pauciradiatus and Diretmoides parini) and cephalopods (mainly S. oualaniensis) were the main prey of swordfish. Diet overlap between swordfish and yellowfin tuna was evidenced by high Morisita-Horn index. But the feeding habits of these three predators differed by foraging depth and prey size, with swordfish feeding at deeper depths and on larger prey than the more epipelagic lancetfish and yellowfin tuna. Using these three predators as biological samplers, the present study provides novel data on micronekton fauna that is poorly documented in the western Indian Ocean: 67 families and 84 species of prey were recovered in the stomach contents, and our results indicate the presence of large resources of pelagic crustaceans that play a primary role in the epipelagic food chain.

92/1490: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/speciescompositionoftunacatchestakenbypurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Species composition of tuna catches taken by purse seiners
This paper makes a presentation of the multi-species
size sampling that have been conducted in the Indian and
Atlantic oceans since the early eighties allowing to
estimate the average species and size composition of tuna
landings by pole and line vessels and purse seiners. The
paper further discusses the structural biases that are
expected when sampling the complex mixture of sizes and
species that are observed on FAD schools, when done by
observers. It advocates the necessity to sample these
catches using large scale port multispecies sampling
schemes. The data processing of these multi species
samples is also discussed, based the methods developed by
EU scientists in the Atlantic and Indian oceans. The paper
recommends promoting a unified sampling scheme of
purse seine landings in the WCP and a unified data
processing of these size and species samples. The final
recommendation of the paper would to process all the
WCP historical data of species composition using this new
method, and to promote as soon as possible in the WCP
such optimized sampling scheme, this sampling being
fully coordinated between IATTC and WCPFC at the
scale of the entire Pacific Ocean.



1302) Recherche du mot : Espadon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/xiphias_gladius)


1303) Recherche du mot : Elagatis bipinnulata (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/elagatis_bipinnulata)
1/1491: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

2/1492: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingfishcommunitiesassociatedwithdriftingfishaggregatingdevicesfadsinthewesternindianoceanusingunderwatervisualsurveys> : SCORE = 1.1580675
Doc : Characterizing fish communities associated with drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean using underwater visual surveys
We adapted a visual census method, mainly used in demersal and reef fish studies, to characterize fish communities associated to drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean. Drifting FAD associated fishes from both equatorial (Seychelles) and tropical waters (Reunion Island) were examined by divers. A total of 32 species (belonging to 16 families) were observed associated with drifting FADs in equatorial waters, and 24 species (14 families) were found around FADs in tropical waters. Twenty species were found in both regions. The highest number of species observed at a single FAD was 18 (12 ± 2, mean ± SD) in equatorial and 13 (10 ± 3) in tropical waters, not counting circumnatant species loosely associated with the FAD. Some species like Kyphosus vaigiensis, Canthidermis maculata, Elagatis bipinnulata, Acanthocybium solandri and Coryphaena hippurus were observed on all or most of the surveys. In this study, the contribution in biomass of the 18 common species associated with drifting FADs (but excluding circumnatant species), represents more than 98% of the biomass. The overall biomass values of closely associated species remains well below tuna biomass estimates for circumnatant tuna schools at FADs, estimated as high as 200 tons. The species that most significantly contribute to the by-catch in tuna purse-seines logically match those that showing the highest biomass values in our surveys (Carcharhinus spp., Elagatis bipinnulata, Coryphaena hippurus, Canthidermis maculata, and Acanthocybium solandri). One of the most abundant and ubiquitous species in our study was the spotted oceanic triggerfish Canthidermis maculata that sometimes formed massive schools of many thousands individuals around the drifting FADs. Future research is needed to explore the role of such non tuna species in the attraction and aggregation processes of tuna around drifting FADs.



1304) Recherche du mot : CICAA (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/groupIattcAtlantic)


1305) Recherche du mot : Dynamique des populations (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/population_dynamics)


1306) Recherche du mot : Diamondback squid (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thysanoteuthis_rhombus)


1307) Recherche du mot : ChloA (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/chlorophyllA)


1308) Recherche du mot : Rouvet (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ruvettus_pretiosus)


1309) Recherche du mot : Rynchonerella angelini (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/rynchonerella_angelini)


1310) Recherche du mot : school (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/school)
1/1493: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/behaviorofdolphinfishcoryphaenahippurusarounddriftingfadsasobservedfromautomatedacousticreceivers> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Behavior of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) around drifting FADs as observed from automated acoustic receivers
To study the behavior of dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) around drifting Fish Aggregating Devices (FADs), we tagged individuals with long-lived, coded sonic transmitters and attached automated sonic receivers to drifting FADs in two regions of theWestern Indian Ocean. Among the three tagging methods used in this study (surgery, external hooks, underwater bait without capture), the latest resulted in residence times significantly shorter than the other ones, likely due to regurgitation. Dolphinfish tagged with the two other methods usually stayed several days associated to FADs (Kaplan-Meier survival analysis 5.09 days, mean 6.25 days, SD 4.39 days, maximum 15.26 days), drifting with them. There was no significant difference in the residence times of dolphinfish in equatorial and tropical areas. While associated to FADs, dolphinfish spent most of their time close to floating object (<365 m). The total time spent away from FADs was low (median 8%), and likely corresponded to making feeding excursions. Dolphinfish did not form a single school while associated to a given FADs, but formed multiple small schools. FADs are likely to be sites with exchanges of individuals between schools. These results are discussed in regards to the possibility of FADs acting as ecological traps and the validity of meeting-point hypotheses as an explanation for fish aggregations under floating objects.

2/1494: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysisofdataobtainedfromobserverprogrammesconductedinandintheindianoceanonboardfrenchpurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Analysis of data obtained from observer programmes conducted in 2005 and 2006 in the indian ocean on board french purse seiners
This paper is a preliminary analysis of the data obtained under the National Database Plan (PNDB).
Between October 2005 and July 2006, three observers from the Development and Research Institute
(IRD) have been on board four French tuna purse seiners. They had to estimate by-catch and discard
and collect detailed information on the fishing activities and the use of FADs.
Areas prospected during these 134 days were NW Seychelles, SE Seychelles, E. Somalia and
Maldives-Chagos; 194 sets (116 positives and 86 negative) have been observed, with a majority
(84%) on free schools (162 sets, 51% positive) and quite few (16%) on associated schools (32 sets,
81% positives). During the day, the main activities of the boat were searching and fishing,
respectively 31% and 13% of total activity. Main reasons for null sets over free school as well as
FADs was that fish sinks or move too fast.
Discards were practically nulls and concerned mainly yellowfin tuna. About by-catch, it represents
less than 1% of total catch (in weight), mainly triggerfish, rainbow runner and wahoo. Selacians
(except shark whales) represented nearly 12% of the total by-catch (in weight) with mainly silky shark
over FADs and skate over free school. As regards billfishes, they represent 5% of total by-catch (in
weight) with mainly Indo-Pacific Sailfish over free school and black marlin over FADs.

3/1495: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/firstfieldbasedexperimentsupportingthemeetingpointhypothesisforschoolinginpelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : First field-based experiment supporting the meeting point hypothesis for schooling in pelagic fish
Aggregations of fish around fish aggregation devices (FADs) have been widely described in the literature;
most commercial catches of tuna by surface fisheries are performed around FADs, taking advantage of
this behaviour. The meeting point hypothesis (MPH) suggests that fish could make use of FADs to
increase the chance of encounters between conspecifics, helping individuals to form larger schools. To
attempt a validation of the MPH, we performed an experiment in the field to test the following
predictions: (1) fish spend more time at FADs than at any other random points and therefore aggregate
around FADs, and (2) fish arrive at FADs as isolated individuals or in small groups and leave them in
larger groups. Our investigation involved acoustic telemetry techniques commonly used to observe fish
at FADs. The study was carried out on a small pelagic fish species, the bigeye scad, Selar crumenophthalmus,
in Saint-Paul's Bay (Reunion Island). Our results validated our two predictions: FADs acted as
retention points, increasing the encounter rate of fish and enhancing schooling behaviour, thereby
supporting the meeting point hypothesis. FADs could be beneficial to the fitness of the associated fish,
promote increased school size and hence confer the advantages of being in a larger group. The impact of
the deployment of large number of FADs in some ocean regions is reinterpreted in light of our results.
 2009 The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

4/1496: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evoluciondelascapturasdejuvenilesderabilypatudodesdelaextenciondelapescasobreobjectosbalizados> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Evolucion de las capturas de juveniles de rabil y patudo desde la extencion de la pesca sobre objectos balizados
This document analyses the distribution of the catch of small yellowfin obtained for the entire
purse seine tuna fishing fleet in the Atlantic Ocean from 1991 to 2003. Catches have been
analysed by year, month, area and fishing mode (free school or floating object), in order to
define areas, seasons and fishing mode associated with largest catches of small yellowfin and
the possible relationship with the moratoria established to reduce juvenile bigeye catches.

5/1497: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/krigingofthelatentprobabilityofabinomialvariableapplicationtofishstatistics> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Kriging of the latent probability of a binomial variable: application to fish statistics
The tropical tuna purse seine fishery is characterised by two fishing modes: one on free swimming tuna schools and one on schools associated with Fish Aggregating Devices (FAD). Our purpose is thus to understand how the two fishing modes are spatially distributed in the Indian Ocean and how this distribution has changed over the seasons and the years. Conditional on the latent probability that a set could be realized on a FAD, the number of sets on FAD was considered as independent Binomial random variables. Such a hierarchical model allows reducing the instabilities encountered when working on empirical ratios based on few observations. We discussed the connections with “kriging with measurement errors” and, the determination of the mean and the variance of the latent variable. The use of 22 years of fishing statistics (1985 – 2006) indicated a small year to year variability between variograms of the latent variable. A single model was thus used to krige the probability for fishing sets to be on log school. The time series of the kriging maps highlighted areas of systematic large probability of the second fishing mode which was consistent with expert knowledge but question the stationarity assumption made on the latent variable.

6/1498: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/omnidirectionalmultibeamsonarmonitoringapplicationsinfisheriesscience> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Omnidirectional multibeam sonar monitoring: applications in fisheries science
Data exploitation, acquired by medium-frequency omnidirectional multibeam sonar, enables original studies in fisheries research but is seldom used despite the fact that such equipment is found on most fishing vessels and a number of research vessels. This is the only system for real-time monitoring of fish schools within a horizontal omnidirectional plane about a vessel or a buoy. Between 1996 and 2001, we used two standard omnidirectional sonars and developed new methodologies for exploiting their specific acoustic data according to two main sampling schemes: 'prospecting', including fishing and searching operations, and 'drifting', as with an instrumental buoy system or aboard a stationary vessel. We present a complete method for continuous data acquisition from aboard a research vessel or commercial boat, with automated data extraction by picture analysis and a data processing method. Two cases of data analysis are considered: the first on a school-by-school basis, the 'single school' mode; the second taking into account all fish schools detected within the sonar sampling volume, the 'cluster' mode. Elementary sonar information is divided into five categories that comprise 24 survey and sonar parameters and 55 school, cluster and fisher behaviour descriptors. We review the applications of these categories and discuss perspectives for their use in fisheries science. If the sonar system enables the evaluation of the effects of vessel avoidance on fish school biomass assessment, no accurate abundance estimate can be provided by a simple sonar echo-integration process. Omnidirectional sonar data can be used to analyse collectively the fish schools' swimming speed, kinematics in terms of diffusion and migration, aggregative dynamics as school splitting and merging indexes, spatial characteristics of clusters such as school density, 2D structure and fisher behaviour. The prospect of integrating such data into a fish school database, including multifrequency echo-sounder and lateral multibeam (3D) sonar data combined with a species recognition method, will enable a complete view of fish school behaviour and consequently the adoption of accurate fisheries management methods.

7/1499: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwppt> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : IOTC 2008-WPPT-26
Standardized yellowfin and skipjack catch rates of the European purse seine fleets in the Indian ocean from 1984 to 2007 using generalized linear models are presented. Different indexes based on logbooks data for the yellowfin free school catch and yellowfin and skipjack FAD catch have been standardized considering time-space strata, vessel category, as well as environmental effects as explicative variables.
1

8/1500: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/athreedimensionalapproachtoschooltypologyusingverticalscanningmultibeamsonar> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : A three-dimensional approach to school typology using vertical scanning multibeam sonar
Fish school typology is usually based on vertical echosounding images. These images provide little objective information on school structure (internal characteristics) or morphology (external characteristics). This paper considers the possibility of using multibeam sonar for 3D recording of the external morphology and internal structure of schools, to enhance the identification of typological criteria. We used recordings of 668 schools obtained from three different regions (Senegal, 68; Venezuela, 343; Mexico, 257) on two different Clupeids (Venezuela and Senegal: Sardinella aurita; Mexico: Sardinops sagax). We extracted 26 parameters (4 geographical; 6 morphological; 16 structural) from each school in the data base, using geostatistics and 3D image-reconstruction software. The schools were very homogeneous in most of their characteristics, presenting unimodal distributions of most parameters. Structural variables presented a higher power of discrimination (significant differences among zones, species and positions in the water column) than morphological ones. Multivariate statistics (principal component analysis followed by mixed hierarchical classification) allowed the definition of four main classes of schools. The conclusion is that the structural data provided by multibeam sonar improves the possibility of obtaining a consistent typology.

9/1501: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/wavesofagitationinsideanchovyschoolsobservedwithmultibeamsonarawaytotransmitinformationinresponsetopredation> : SCORE = 1.253645
Doc : Waves of agitation inside anchovy schools observed with multibeam sonar: a way to transmit information in response to predation
Most pelagic fish live in schools. To allow fast reactions, for instance to predator attacks, these collective structures require behavioural mechanisms authorizing fast, coordinated movements. Considering the large number of individuals constituting a school of small pelagic fish, a crucial premise to coordinated movements and school reorganization is an ability to transfer quickly and efficiently information across the whole collective structure. We observed anchovy school movements and reactions to sea-lion attacks while the ship was drifting in Peruvian waters. The main process of information transfer we could observe was that of waves of agitation crossing large anchovy schools. The average speed of these waves (7.45 m s–1) was much greater than the average 0.3 m s–1 school speeds measured during this experiment. The internal organization of each school modified dramatically after the waves of agitation had crossed them. Changes in school external morphology and internal structure were described and measured using geostatistics. Our results show that information transfer is a crucial process for the cohesion and plasticity of schools. As such, it allows efficient reactions of schools of pelagic fish to variations in their immediate environment in general, and to predation in particular.

10/1502: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/driftingfishaggregationdevicescouldactasanecologicaltrapfortropicaltunaspecies> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Drifting fish aggregation devices could act as an ecological trap for tropical tuna species
Purse seine fishing on fish aggregating devices (FADs) has expanded considerably during
the last 15 yr in tropical tuna purse seine fisheries, and FADs currently account for about 70% of
their reported tuna catches. The scientific community has expressed concern over the consequences
of this fishing practice in terms of yield per recruit and suspected detrimental effects on FADassociated
tunas. To explore possible detrimental effects, we compared stomach fullness, fish plumpness,
growth rate, and migration behaviour between free school and drifting FAD-associated tunas
for skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis and yellowfin tuna Thunnus albacares caught in the Atlantic
and Indian Oceans. Significant differences in fish plumpness and individual growth rates were found,
suggesting that individuals associated with drifting FADs were less healthy than those in free schools.
Since stomach fullness indicated that tunas associated with FADs eat less than those in free schools,
the difference in growth rate and condition could be the consequence of altered feeding patterns. For
each species, significant changes in migratory direction and displacement rates were observed in the
presence of drifting FADs. These findings support the hypothesis that FADs act as a super-stimulus,
misleading tunas to make inappropriate habitat selection. However, further studies are required to
investigate the long-term effect of FADs on the entire life cycle of tunas.

11/1503: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/schoolingpropertiesofanobligateandafacultativefishspecies> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Schooling properties of an obligate and a facultative fish species
Changes in attraction and repulsion indicators, depending on the species and the group size, were explored under controlled conditions. Two species, displaying different schooling behaviours in the wild were observed: the bigeye scad Selar crumenophthalmus and the barred flagtail Kuhlia mugil. In the bigeye scad, the polarity and speed were high and stable, and the nearest neighbour distance (D-NN) decreased when the group size increased. In contrast, for the barred flagtail, polarity and speed decreased according to the group size, inducing a loss of cohesion and leading to a disorganized school. The D-NN mean was stable whatever the group size and relatively high. This experiment indicated that the ability to polarize is first a species-specific trait, rather than a property emerging from the group and led by the circumstances.

12/1504: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/indicatorsofsustainablefishingforsouthafricansardinesardinopssagaxandanchovyengraulisencrasicolus> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Indicators of sustainable fishing for South African sardine Sardinops sagax and anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus
Six indicators were investigated for South African sardine Sardinops sagax and anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus: mean length of catch, length-at-50% maturity, total mortality, exploitation rate, ratio of bycatch, and centre of gravity of commercial catches. Sardine length-at-50% maturity is  the most promising as a descriptive indicator because it is positively correlated with population  size for an extensive time period (1953–2005). The remaining indicators were limited by shorter data-series (1984–2005). However, mean length of catch, ratio of bycatch and exploitation rate  were found to be useful when considered in conjunction with other indicators. The centre of gravity of commercial sardine catches has shown a significant eastward shift from the West Coast, whereas that of anchovy has remained off that coast. Ratio of bycatch indicates that school composition is a reliable descriptive indicator of relative abundance in the two species. Fewer indicators for anchovy were useful, which is attributed to this species' flexible life-history pattern.

13/1505: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/schoolingbehaviourandenvironmentalforcinginrelationtoanchovetadistributionananalysisacrossmultiplespatialscales> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Schooling behaviour and environmental forcing in relation to anchoveta distribution: an analysis across multiple spatial scales
The Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) supports the highest worldwide fishery landings and varies in space and time over many scales. Here we present the first comprehensive sub-mesocale study of anchoveta distribution in relation to the environment. During November 2004, we conducted a behavioural ecology survey off central Peru and used a series of observational and sampling tools including SST and CO2 sensors, Niskin bottles, CTD probes, zooplankton sampling, stomach content analysis, echo-sounder, multibeam sonar, and bird observations. The sub-mesoscale survey areas were chosen from mesoscale acoustic surveys. A routine coast-wide (not, vert, similar2000 km) acoustic survey performed just after the sub-mesoscale surveys, provided information at an even larger population scale. The availability of nearly concurrent sub-mesoscale, mesoscale and coast-wide information on anchoveta distribution allowed for a unique multi-scale synthesis. At the sub-mesoscale (100s m to km) physical processes (internal waves and frontogenesis) concentrated plankton into patches and determined anchoveta spatial distribution. At the mesoscale (10s km) location relative to the zone of active upwelling (and age of the upwelled water) and the depth of the oxycline had strong impacts on the anchoveta. Finally, over 100s km the size of the productive area, as defined by the upwelled cold coastal waters, was the determining factor. We propose a conceptual view of the relative importance of social behaviour and environmental (biotic and abiotic) processes on the spatial distribution of anchoveta. Our ecological space has two y-axis; one based on self-organization (social behaviour), and the other based on the environmental processes. At scales from the individual (10s cm), to the nucleus (m), social behaviour (e.g. the need to school) drives spatial organization. At scales larger than the school, environmental forces are the main driver of fish distribution. The conceptual ecosystem models presented in this paper may provide the final links needed to develop accurate forecasts of the spatial distribution of anchoveta over multiple scales.

14/1506: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/schoolingbehaviourofsmallpelagicfishphenotypicexpressionofindependentstimuli> : SCORE = 0.91553277
Doc : Schooling behaviour of small pelagic fish: phenotypic expression of independent stimuli
We compared echo sounder measurements of fish schools on Venezuelan and Senegalese coastal shelves. In both areas Sardinella aurita was the predominant aggregative species; the stocks are known to be genetically independent. Persistent school typology is described by analysing 7 acoustic surveys in Venezuela and comparing with pioneer observations in Senegal. The echo types encountered in both countries were comparable, with S. aurita and their associated species having comparable schooling behaviour. School morphology appears to be more related to species than to global characteristics of their ecosystems, as fish school descriptors were similar for both stocks. Nevertheless, S. aurita may adopt different school morphologies. Differentiation between day and night fish schools was mainly due to morphological variables, as determined by fractal dimension. Echo types were different between day and night in both Venezuela and Senegal. This analysis shows that several independent parameters can influence school morphology. However, although schooling behaviour is temporally highly variable, it shows several constant, typical 2D morphological structures, i.e. echo types. The observation of small pelagic fish schools occurring during the night is not unusual according to the literature, although a strict diurnal schooling behaviour, with scattering during the night, is often reported. Schooling behaviour appears to be a phenotypic expression depending on biotic and abiotic stimuli, intrinsic characteristics and motivation.



1311) Recherche du mot : sula sula (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sula_sula)
1/1507: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/resourcepartitioningwithinatropicalseabirdcommunitynewinformationfromstableisotopes> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Resource partitioning within a tropical seabird community: new information from stable isotopes
Characteristics of the tropical oceanic environment (low productivity, little seasonality) and poor diversity of tropical seabird foraging methods and prey relative to temperate and polar species suggest that tropical seabirds overall encompass a narrow range of isotopic niches, with large overlaps among species. To test this hypothesis, we examined the stable carbon (δ13C) and nitrogen (δ15N) isotopic composition of blood and feathers of 5 seabird species from Europa Island, Mozambique Channel. While differences were small, blood δ13C and δ15N values characterized 5 distinct and non-overlapping trophic niches during the breeding period. Seabirds used 2 distinct foraging areas (δ13C), one used by sooty tern Sterna fuscata and white-tailed tropicbird Phaethon lepturus and one used by red-footed booby Sula sula and great Fregata minor and lesser F. ariel frigatebirds. Seabird species overall encompassed less than 1 trophic level (δ15N), which is in agreement with a diet mainly based on flying fish and squid. Feather δ13C and δ15N values showed that the trophic structure of the community was different during the breeding and non-breeding (moulting) periods, suggesting a shift in the feeding ecology when adult birds were no longer central-place foragers. The stable isotope method underlined sex-related (red-footed booby) and age-related (great frigatebird immatures and adults) feeding strategies. It also suggested that breeding adults could feed themselves on different prey than those given to their chicks (sooty tern). Within the tropical pelagic ecosystem, seabirds overall shared the same trophic level as large predatory fishes (albacore, yellowfin and skipjack tunas), but they had lower δ15N values than the deeper-dwelling bigeye tuna and swordfish. We conclude that analyzing stable isotope values in blood and feathers appears to be a promising alternative method for investigating food and feeding ecology of tropical seabirds year round, and for determining sex- and age-related differences in their foraging strategies. A limitation of the method is the lack of information on marine isoscapes; future studies aimed at isotopically characterizing the tropical marine environment could help to associate consumer signatures to geographic origins.

2/1508: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragingstrategyofatropicalseabirdtheredfootedboobyinadynamicmarineenvironment> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Foraging strategy of a tropical seabird, the red-footed booby, in a dynamic marine environment
The foraging behaviour of animals depends on the distribution, abundance and predictability
of their food resources. In the marine environment, top predators such as seabirds are
known to concentrate their foraging effort in specific oceanic features where productivity is elevated
or prey concentrated. When marine productivity is low and prey distribution unpredictable, such as
in tropical waters, selection should favour the evolution of flexible foraging strategies. By using GPS,
Argos transmitters and activity recorders, we studied the foraging strategy of red-footed boobies
(RFBs) Sula sula breeding on Europa Island in the Mozambique Channel, to examine the way a central
place forager searches for prey in tropical waters. RFBs only foraged during the day-time and
never sat on the water at night; thus, they consequently had a limited maximum foraging range of
148 km. Primary production within this range was low overall (average 0.165 mg chlorophyll m–3),
with a high spatial and temporal heterogeneity due to the presence of strong geostrophic currents
and surface mixing by storms. RFBs appear to adjust their foraging strategy to cope with this situation.
Individual birds do not return to the same oceanic sites from one trip to the next, but generally
head in the direction of zones where productivity is enhanced. Active foraging, i.e. periods when
birds spent time on the sea surface or dived, occurred at the most distant part of the foraging trip.
Despite their limited foraging range and the low productivity of surrounding waters, red-footed boobies
are able to track zones of prey availability located in areas of enhanced primary production.
Searching is probably favoured by the presence of sub-surface predators that chase prey to the surface.
The foraging strategy of this tropical sulid appears to differ extensively from that of temperate
or polar seabirds whose prey distribution and availability are more predictable.

3/1509: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foraginghabitatsoftheseabirdcommunityofeuropaislandmozambiquechannel> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Foraging habitats of the seabird community of Europa Island (Mozambique Channel)
We investigated the foraging habitats of the winter breeding community of tropical seabirds from Europa Island (Mozambique Channel) in September 2003. We focused our study on the dominant species of this austral community, the sooty tern (Sterna fuscata), the red-footed booby (Sula sula), and the frigatebirds, including the great (Fregata minor) and the lesser frigatebirds (F. ariel). We considered the at-sea distribution and abundance of these species in relation to chlorophyll concentration, sea-surface temperatures, sea-surface height anomalies, depth of the thermocline, distance to the colony, and presence of surface marine predators, flying fishes and other seabirds. Although the marine environment where seabirds foraged was oligotrophic, it presents the best feeding opportunities for seabirds for the area in winter. Our study demonstrates that the winter-breeding seabird species of Europa Island tend to forage in productive waters in association with other marine predators when possible. Sooty terns and frigatebirds were widely distributed in the whole study area, whereas red-footed boobies were not found farther than 160 km from their colonies and were associated with relatively productive waters. Sooty terns and red-footed boobies were aggregated where flying fishes were abundant. The presence of other marine predators was associated with larger multispecies feeding flocks than when no association occurred. Sooty terns, which are numerically dominant at Europa and adopted network foraging, seem to be catalysts of feeding events, and represented a good target for the other foraging species, especially frigatebirds. However, when possible, frigatebirds favour association with flocks of red-footed boobies.



1312) Recherche du mot : Dispositif de concentration de poissons (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/FAD)


1313) Recherche du mot : Atún rojo (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/bft)


1314) Recherche du mot : Picuda barracuda (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyraena_barracuda)


1315) Recherche du mot : Pulpota (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/taaningia_danae)


1316) Recherche du mot : Avel viz (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/avel_viz)


1317) Recherche du mot : Eastern tropical atlantic (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/eastern_tropical_atlantic_ecosystem)


1318) Recherche du mot : SEYCHELLES (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_SYC_VIC)
1/1510: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/roleofpelagiccrustaceansinthedietofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxintheseychelleswaters> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : Role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) in the Seychelles waters
The role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox was investigated from stomach content analysis of fish collected in the waters surrounding the Seychelles Archipelago in the western Indian Ocean. Crustaceans accounted for 88.4% by prey number and 73.7% by reconstituted mass during the South-West monsoon season. During the North-East monsoon season, crustaceans remained the main prey group and accounted for 63.7% by prey number and 46% by reconstituted mass. There was a clear seasonal pattern with the portunid crab Charybdis smithii predominating during the South-West monsoon season and the pelagic stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris during the North-East monsoon season. This pattern likely reflects variations in prey availability linked to current movements around the Seychelles Archipelago. Most of the prey consisted of slow-swimming and small individuals, which occur in dense swarms during the pelagic phase of their life history. The dietary trends of lancetfish are consistent with opportunistic feeding on the most abundant prey. They exploit short food chains based on carnivorous crustaceans, and play an important role in the pelagic trophic functioning of the western Indian Ocean.

2/1511: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysisofdataobtainedfromobserverprogrammesconductedinandintheindianoceanonboardfrenchpurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Analysis of data obtained from observer programmes conducted in 2005 and 2006 in the indian ocean on board french purse seiners
This paper is a preliminary analysis of the data obtained under the National Database Plan (PNDB).
Between October 2005 and July 2006, three observers from the Development and Research Institute
(IRD) have been on board four French tuna purse seiners. They had to estimate by-catch and discard
and collect detailed information on the fishing activities and the use of FADs.
Areas prospected during these 134 days were NW Seychelles, SE Seychelles, E. Somalia and
Maldives-Chagos; 194 sets (116 positives and 86 negative) have been observed, with a majority
(84%) on free schools (162 sets, 51% positive) and quite few (16%) on associated schools (32 sets,
81% positives). During the day, the main activities of the boat were searching and fishing,
respectively 31% and 13% of total activity. Main reasons for null sets over free school as well as
FADs was that fish sinks or move too fast.
Discards were practically nulls and concerned mainly yellowfin tuna. About by-catch, it represents
less than 1% of total catch (in weight), mainly triggerfish, rainbow runner and wahoo. Selacians
(except shark whales) represented nearly 12% of the total by-catch (in weight) with mainly silky shark
over FADs and skate over free school. As regards billfishes, they represent 5% of total by-catch (in
weight) with mainly Indo-Pacific Sailfish over free school and black marlin over FADs.

3/1512: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/cireneairseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Cirene: Air—Sea Interactions in the Seychelles—Chagos Thermocline Ridge Region
The Vasco—Cirene program ex-plores how strong air—sea inter-actions promoted by the shallow thermocline and high sea surface temperature in the Seychelles—Chagos thermocline ridge results in marked variability at synoptic, intraseasonal, and interannual time scales. The Cirene oceano-graphic cruise collected oceanic, atmospheric, and air—sea flux observations in this region in Jan-uary—February 2007. The contem-poraneous Vasco field experiment complemented these measure-ments with balloon deployments from the Seychelles. Cirene also contributed to the development of the Indian Ocean observing system via deployment of a moor-ing and 12 Argo profilers.Unusual conditions prevailed in the Indian Ocean during Janu-ary and February 2007, following the Indian Ocean dipole climate anomaly of late 2006. Cirene measurements show that the Seychelles—Chagos thermocline ridge had higher-than-usual heat content with subsurface anomalies up to 7°C. The ocean surface was warmer and fresher than average, and unusual eastward currents prevailed down to 800 m. These anomalous conditions had a major impact on tuna fishing in early 2007. Our dataset also sampled the genesis and maturation of Tropical Cyclone Dora, including high surface temperatures and a strong diurnal cycle before the cyclone, followed by a 1.5°C cool-ing over 10 days. Balloonborne instruments sampled the surface and boundary layer dynamics of Dora. We observed small-scale structures like dry-air layers in the atmosphere and diurnal warm layers in the near-surface ocean. The Cirene data will quantify the impact of these finescale features on the upper-ocean heat budget and atmospheric deep convection.

4/1513: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialdistributionofcubicepspauciradiatusperciformesnomeidaeinthetropicalindianoceananditsimportanceinthedietoflargepelagicfishes> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Spatial distribution of Cubiceps pauciradiatus (Perciformes:Nomeidae) in the tropical Indian Ocean and its importance in the diet of large pelagic fishes
The bigeye cigarfish (Cubiceps pauciradiatus) is a small pelagic nomeid of the tropical world ocean, often recovered in the stomach contents of top predators such as tunas, billfishes and marine mammals. In the Indian Ocean, a few studies have investigated the biology and the ecology of this species that is one of the most abundant fish of the intermediate trophic levels. In this paper, we investigated the spatial distribution of C. pauciradiatus in the Indian Ocean using pelagic trawl catches carried out between 20°N and 45°S, and the importance of bigeye cigarfish in the diet of 9 piscivorous fishes sampled by different fishing gears in the western part of the Indian Ocean. The highest densities were observed along the eastern coast of Africa and in the Arabian Sea (87 000 individuals per square nautical mile) during the South-West Monsoon and in the eastern part of the Seychelles archipelago (62 200 ind. square nmi) during the North-East Monsoon. Small sized bigeye cigarfish (20–80 mm SL) was a regular and abundant prey (20 to 200 ind. per stomach) for schooling predators exploited by purse seine fishery such as large yellowfin and bigeye tunas chasing prey near the sea surface. Large sized bigeye cigarfish (61–150 mm SL) occurred in small numbers (3 to 20 ind. per stomach) in the stomach contents of swordfish and of large yellowfin and bigeye tunas caught by longline sets at great depths. Large concentrations of bigeye cigarfish occurred in zones of high productivity, and that species constituted seasonally a strong link in the transfer of energy from low to high trophic levels in this part of the Indian Ocean.

5/1514: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hookingresponsesoftargetedandnontargetedspeciesobservedonpelagiclonglineusingcommonsaurysquidandlargebonitosbaitspreliminaryresultsfromfishingexperimentscarriedoutintheseychelleswaters> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Hooking responses of targeted and non targeted species observed on pelagic longline using common (saury, squid) and large (bonitos) baits : Preliminary results from fishing experiments carried out in the Seychelles waters.


6/1515: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deepdivingbehaviorobservedinyellowfintunathunnusalbacares> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Deep diving behavior observed in yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares)
Yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) are known to preferentially occupy the surface mixed layer above the thermocline and it has been suggested that they are physiologically restricted to water temperatures no more than 8 °C colder than surface waters. However, we here report for dive data acquired from a large yellowfin tuna which demonstrate for the first time that this species is indeed capable of making prolonged dives into deep cold waters. A yellowfin tuna (134 cm fork length) caught near an anchored fish aggregating device (FAD) in the Seychelles (Western Indian Ocean) was equipped with an internally implanted archival tag and released. The fish was recaptured 98 days later. As predicted for this species, this fish spent 85% of its time shallower than 75 m (maximum thermocline depth experienced by the fish) but, over the course of the track, it performed three deep dives to 578 m, 982 m and 1160 m. Minimum ambient water temperatures recorded at these depths were 8.6 °C, 7.4 °C and 5.8 °C respectively and varied by up to 23.3 °C from surface temperatures. The fish spent 8.3% of its time in waters more than 8 °C colder than the surface layer and daily experienced a wide range of sea temperatures (mode at 15-16 °C) and of temperatures of the gut cavity (mode at 6 °C). The reason for these dives can not be known. These depths and temperatures significantly exceed those reported in the literature so far and clearly demonstrate that this species has the physiological and behavioral ability to penetrate deep cold sections of the ocean.

7/1516: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparativeforagingecologyandecologicalnicheofasuperabundanttropicalseabirdthesootyternsternafuscatainthesouthwestindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Comparative foraging ecology and ecological niche of a superabundant tropical seabird: the sooty tern Sterna fuscata in the southwest Indian Ocean
Over 6-million pairs of sooty terns Sterna fuscata breed once a year in the southwest Indian Ocean, mostly on three islands of the Mozambique Channel (Europa, Juan de Nova and Glorieuses) and in the Seychelles region. Seasonal reproduction in either winter or summer is the dominant strategy in the area, but nonseasonal reproduction also occurred in some places like at Glorieuses Archipelago. The feeding ecology of the sooty tern was investigated during the breeding seasons to determine whether terns showed signiWcant diVerences in their trophic ecology between locations. Regurgitations were analyzed to describe the diet of individuals when breeding, and stable isotopes and mercury concentrations were used to temporally integrate over the medium-term of the trophic ecology of both adults and chicks. Overall, the diet was composed of fish, flying squid and fish larvae in different proportions. At Europa and Aride in the Seychelles, where winter reproduction occurs, large epipelagic prey like flying fish or squid dominated the diet. At Juan de Nova, sooty terns reproduce in summer and rely mostly on fish larvae. At Glorieuses (non-seasonal breeding), the diet was intermediate with fish larvae and flying squid being important prey items. The stable-carbon and nitrogen isotope values in blood confirm the differences observed in dietary analysis, and demonstrate different feeding strategies between colonies...δ13 C values of feathers showed spatial segregation between birds from the Mozambique Channel and the Seychelles region. Terns from the Seychelles had also higher δ15 N values. Feather δ13 C values also suggest a significant shift from summer to wintering habitat for birds from Juan de Nova. This study emphasizes the high phenotypic plasticity of the species, which may explain its numerical dominance in all tropical waters of the World's Ocean.

8/1517: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/seychellesrecordsfirstribbonfishinitswaters> : SCORE = 2.1275058
Doc : Seychelles records first ribbonfish in its waters
A large strange fish known as the ribbonfish has been recorded for the first time in Seychelles' waters, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) has announced.

9/1518: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/regionalfeedingpatternsofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Regional feeding patterns of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) of the western Indian Ocean
The food composition of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox Lowe, 1833) was studied in two areas belonging to different biogeographic provinces of the western Indian Ocean: Indian Monsoon Gyres Province (MONS) and Indian South Subtropical Gyre Province (ISSG). A total of 158 lancetfish were sampled during two research longline cruises in 1986-1987: 50 within the MONS, from the western equatorial area (between the EEZs of Kenya and Seychelles) and 108 within the ISSG, from the northern part of the EEZ of Mauritius (Saya-de-Malha Bank – Agalega Islands area). In the equatorial area, 135 prey items (of 18 families or higher taxa) were found in the lancetfish stomachs. In the waters of Mauritius, 476 prey items of 53 taxa were recorded. Regional variability in the feeding habits reflects province-specific differences in the prey abundance and the structure of pelagic communities of the intermediate trophic levels. Large predatory crustaceans dominate in the waters of MONS, while they are absent in the poor waters of ISSG. Foraging success of the lancetfish on non-evasive prey was 3.2 times higher in the MONS than in the ISSG. In overall, swimming crab, Hyperiidea, conspecifics, barracudina, hatchetfish, hammerjaw, and Polychaeta were the predominant prey of the lancetfish. Great differences in the food composition of ‘small' (FL

10/1519: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/vascocirenemeasurementssupplementdecireneairseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 1.2410451
Doc : 'Vasco–Cirene measurements', supplément de "Cirene: Air–Sea Interactions in the Seychelles–Chagos Thermocline Ridge Region"
T
he Vasco–Cirene field experiment, in January–
February 2007, targeted the Seychelles–Chagos
thermocline ridge (SCTR) region, with the main purpose of investigating Madden–Julian Oscillation (MJO)-related SST events. The Validation of the Aeroclipper System under Convective Occurrences (Vasco) experiment (Duvel et al. 2009) and Cirene cruise were designed to provide complementary views of air–sea interaction in the SCTR region. While meteorological balloons were deployed from the Seychelles as a part of Vasco, the Research Vessel (R/V) Suroît was cruising the SCTR region as a part of Cirene.[...]

11/1520: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mesoscaleexploitationofamajortunaconcentrationintheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Mesoscale exploitation of a major tuna concentration in the Indian Ocean
The paper analyzes the daily catch, fishing effort and fish size data of the purse seine fleet fishing in the
western Indian Ocean in February 2005, when a major concentration of tuna occurred and was heavily exploited by
this surface fishery. This tuna concentration event occurred over a period of just 12 days, in an area of about 3500
square nautical miles located to the west of the Seychelles. This small stratum produced a total catch of 22 000 t,
corresponding to 6.5% of the total fishing mortality of all adult yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) in the entire Indian
Ocean in 2005. Sets were made mainly on free schools and the catch mainly composed of large yellowfin tuna. The
average CPUE and the average catch per set were very large, 65 t and 85 t per fishing day, respectively. This “event” took
place in a precise area where a high concentration of chlorophyll had been localized 18 days before. The subsequent
concentration of tuna schools probably arose due to the high densities of their prey feeding on this large phytoplankton
biomass. This phytoplankton bloom was observed at the edge of an anticyclonic eddy, but its origin and its high density
cannot be fully explained by available environmental data. The adult yellowfin were probably at a reproductive stage
and actively feeding on the local food chain generated by the phytoplankton bloom. Such an event is extreme, but
typical of tuna purse seine fisheries where fleets often search for such tuna patches. These events play an important role
in tuna fisheries due to the increase in fishing effort and fishing efficiency of purses seiners, both of which increase their
impact on the resource. The fine scale study of such events and their improved integration into tuna stock assessments
is recommended.

12/1521: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/airseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Air-sea interactions in the Seychelles-Chagos thermocline ridge region
A field experiment in the southwestern Indian Ocean provides new insights into ocean–atmosphere interactions in a key climatic region.

13/1522: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwpeb> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : IOTC WPEB - 2008/016
Data collected through 20 observer fishing trips were used to quantify
the number of silky sharks taken as bycatch by the French tuna
purse seine fishery of the Western Indian Ocean. 1,385 immature
silky sharks of which 85% was discarded at sea and 15% retained
aboard, were observed as bycatch during 685 fishing sets observed
from October 2005 to April 2008. Zero-inflated regression models
fitted with Bayesian methods were used to explain silky shark
bycatch as a function of fishing mode (free vs. fishing aggregating
device-associated (FAD) schools), area, and season. Model results
showed that silky sharks occurred in 24% of the fishing sets with an
expected number of sharks per set estimated to be 2.02 ± 0.05. The
3 covariates were found to significantly explain both the presence
and number of silky sharks caught by the French purse seiners. FAD
was shown to have a strong positive effect on the number of silky
sharks caught, an expected value of 4.3 sharks being taken in FADassociated
schools versus 0.3 shark in free schools. There were
significant differences in silky shark bycatch between seasons and
areas with higher bycatch than average in July-September and in the
South-East Seychelles area while fewer sharks were expected to be
caught in the North Somali area. Results are discussed within the
context of the ecosystem approach to fisheries for the analysis of
ecosystem effects of fishing.

14/1523: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingfishcommunitiesassociatedwithdriftingfishaggregatingdevicesfadsinthewesternindianoceanusingunderwatervisualsurveys> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Characterizing fish communities associated with drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean using underwater visual surveys
We adapted a visual census method, mainly used in demersal and reef fish studies, to characterize fish communities associated to drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean. Drifting FAD associated fishes from both equatorial (Seychelles) and tropical waters (Reunion Island) were examined by divers. A total of 32 species (belonging to 16 families) were observed associated with drifting FADs in equatorial waters, and 24 species (14 families) were found around FADs in tropical waters. Twenty species were found in both regions. The highest number of species observed at a single FAD was 18 (12 ± 2, mean ± SD) in equatorial and 13 (10 ± 3) in tropical waters, not counting circumnatant species loosely associated with the FAD. Some species like Kyphosus vaigiensis, Canthidermis maculata, Elagatis bipinnulata, Acanthocybium solandri and Coryphaena hippurus were observed on all or most of the surveys. In this study, the contribution in biomass of the 18 common species associated with drifting FADs (but excluding circumnatant species), represents more than 98% of the biomass. The overall biomass values of closely associated species remains well below tuna biomass estimates for circumnatant tuna schools at FADs, estimated as high as 200 tons. The species that most significantly contribute to the by-catch in tuna purse-seines logically match those that showing the highest biomass values in our surveys (Carcharhinus spp., Elagatis bipinnulata, Coryphaena hippurus, Canthidermis maculata, and Acanthocybium solandri). One of the most abundant and ubiquitous species in our study was the spotted oceanic triggerfish Canthidermis maculata that sometimes formed massive schools of many thousands individuals around the drifting FADs. Future research is needed to explore the role of such non tuna species in the attraction and aggregation processes of tuna around drifting FADs.

15/1524: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/studylooksatwaylonglinescantargettuna> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Study looks at way longlines can target tuna
Researchers have concluded the first phase of a study investigating ways that Seychelles' longliners can better target tuna.

16/1525: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

17/1526: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwptt> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : IOTC-2006-WPTT-09
This paper aims to demonstrate the great potential of routine sampling at canneries to follow up biological parameters of tuna species and to track changes (in space and time) of the forage resources available to pelagic top predators. The present dataset pooling observations for 1984-2006 by observers at sea and at the cannery in Seychelles allows updating some of the biometric relationships used by the IOTC for yellowfin tuna. The updated equations proposed to convert first dorsal lengths into fork lengths is : FL = 2.0759 FDL1.1513. The updated size weight relationship proposed is : W = 1.8860E-05 FL3.0195 . The length at first maturity is re-estimated to 104 cm (for females) from a large dataset concerning the WIO purse seine fishery. A decrease of the size at which males become dominant in the population is suggested, from 154 cm to 144 cm in the present study. The analysis of gut contents points out clear distinction between areas covered by the purse seine fishery, in terms of dominance of prey resources for pelagic top predators.

18/1527: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.



1319) Recherche du mot : Carite estriado Indo-Pacífico (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_commerson)


1320) Recherche du mot : Comète fine (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/decapterus_macrosoma)


1321) Recherche du mot : Thon dents de chien (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/gymnosarda_unicolor)


1322) Recherche du mot : chalut (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/trawl)
1/1528: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/chantiergolfedegascogne> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Chantier Golfe de gascogne
L'action des engins de pêche sur le fond a déjà été décrite, filmée. La comparaison de prélèvements dans le secteur de la Grande Vasière réalisés à 30 ans d'intervalle met en évidence une évolution de la faune et de la nature du fond (Le Loch, 2004). Mais peu de chiffres argumentés permettent de quantifier l'impact des engins de pêche sur le fond.
Cette étude pluridisciplinaire se base sur :
- une connaissance de la structure sédimentaire du plateau de la Grande Vasière,
- une analyse des phénomènes en jeu dans le cycle dépôt-remobilisation de la colonne sédimentaire (apports fluviaux, front thermo-halin, houle, courant, organismes fouisseurs,….),
- une typologie des engins de pêche utilisés sur le plateau et un descriptif (largeur balayée, enfoncement, …) de l'action de chacun des éléments (bourrelet, chaîne, bras, panneau)
- une sélection de l'effort de pêche 2003 pour 6 classes de longueur de navire, 9 carrés statistiques, 2 types d'engin (chalut simple ou jumeau) et 2 types de prises (langoustines ou non : différenciation des efforts focalisés sur la Grande Vasière de ceux également répartis dans les carrés statistiques ).
Les résultats portent sur la surface balayée et la quantité de sédiments fins remis en suspension. La paramétrisation des formules permet de tester l'influence de tels ou tels éléments dans le bilan global.
Ainsi chaque mètre carré de la Grande Vasière est balayé au minimum 6 fois par an. La remobilisation des sédiments fins par les engins de pêche est comparable à la remobilisation par les tempêtes.

2/1529: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/stablecarbonandnitrogenisotopeanalysisofthenephropsnorvegicusmerlucciusmerlucciusfishinggroundsinthebayofbiscaynortheastatlantic> : SCORE = 0.30707902
Doc : Stable carbon and nitrogen isotope analysis of the Nephrops norvegicus/Merluccius merluccius fishing grounds in the Bay of Biscay (Northeast Atlantic)
The trophic structure of the benthic ecosystem of the Grande Vasière (Great Mud Bank), a heavily trawled area in the Bay of Biscay, is largely unknown. To better understand the biotic interactions between exploited species (mainly Norway lobster, Nephrops norvegicus, and European hake, Merluccius merluccius) and their competitors and prey, we applied a dual stable carbon (13C/12C) and nitrogen (15N/14N) isotope analysis to determine trophic levels and differences in the potential food sources of species in the benthic and demersal communities. Five main groups of species constitute the basis of the trophic structure. They are distributed in three main trophic levels: primary consumers; secondary consumers including N. norvegicus and juvenile M. merluccius; and top predators including adult M. merluccius (δ15N = 14.5). The large differences in δ13C values within the primary consumers attest to two different food components: a pelagic component composed of fresh sedimenting particulate organic matter, which mainly supplies supra- and epi-benthic suspension feeders, and zooplankton, and a benthic component, which mainly supplies deposit feeders. For the predators, the target species, and their competitors, diet changes during the life-span are reflected by differences in isotope values for the size classes.

Résumé : La structure trophique de l'écosystème benthique de la Grande Vasière, une importante zone de pêche au chalut de fond du Golfe de Gascogne, demeure encore méconnue. Afin de mieux comprendre les interactions biotiques entre les espèces exploitées (principalement la langoustine, Nephrops norvegicus, et le merlu, Merluccius merluccius) et leurs concurrents et proies, une analyse des isotopes sables du carbone (13C/12C) et de l'azote (15N/14N) a été réalisée pour étudier les différents niveaux trophiques et mettre en évidence l'existence de différentes sources de nourriture potentielles des communautés benthiques et démersales. Cinq principaux groupes trophiques constituent la base de la structure de la chaîne alimentaire. Trois niveaux trophiques ont été identifiés : consommateurs primaires, consommateurs secondaires (N. norvegicus et les juvéniles de M. merluccius) et les supers prédateurs comme les adultes de M. merluccius (δ15N = 14,5 ). Les grandes différences de δ13C au sein des consommateurs primaires attestent de deux différentes sources de nourriture : l'une pélagique composée de matière organique particulaire fraîche sédimentant, qui alimente principalement les suspensivores supra- et épi-benthiques, et le zooplancton et l'autre benthique qui alimente les déposivores. Les changements de régimes alimentaires des prédateurs, l'espèce cible et leurs compétiteurs, au cours de leur vie, se traduisent par des différences isotopiques entre les différentes classes de taille.



1323) Recherche du mot : used external data source (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/used_fishbase_webpage)


1324) Recherche du mot : écosystème d'upwelling (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/upwelling_ecosystem)


1325) Recherche du mot : Comètes nca (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/decapterus_sp)


1326) Recherche du mot : Lamna nasus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lamna_nasus)


1327) Recherche du mot : Scomberomorus sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_sp)


1328) Recherche du mot : tag (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/tag)
1/1530: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/arenaturalandfishingmortalitiescomparablefortropicaltunasamultispeciesapproachwithtaggingdata> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Are natural and fishing mortalities comparable for tropical tunas ? A multispecies approach with tagging data
With the aim of increasing the precision of parameter estimates in tagging analyses, we assumed that the dynamics of tagged fish from different tropical tuna species have processes in common. With this consideration in mind we fit different data sets from two distinct periods of the eastern Atlantic fishery with a multispecies tag-attrition model to provide information for the shared parameters. Among the different assumptions considered, a common attrition rate for the three species of tropical tuna (yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tuna) was not supported by the data under the AIC criteria. However the estimates of the attrition rate for yellowfin and for skipjack were relatively close. On the basis of these preliminary results, it would be interesting to check in the future the accuracy of a common type-1 tag losses (i.e., α) between tagging periods/locations or between species with more complete data sets. Given the limitations of the data and accounting for model uncertainties, it was shown that the Z coefficient was increased by a factor 4.5 for yellowfin from the first period of time (1980-1981) to the second one (1996- 2002). For skipjack and bigeye tuna this increase reached 3.4 and 3.2, respectively. One explanation may result from the increasing use of FADs fishing operations in the tropical surface fishery.

2/1531: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/tagsheddingbytropicaltunasintheindianoceanexplanatoryanalysesandfirstresults> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Tag Shedding by Tropical Tunas in the Indian Ocean: explanatory analyses and first results


3/1532: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparisonoflightandsstbasedgeolocationwithsatellitetelemetryinfreerangingalbatrosses> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Comparison of light- and SST-based geolocation with satellite telemetry in free-ranging albatrosses
Light-based archival tags are increasingly being used on free-ranging marine vertebrates to study their movements using geolocation estimates. These methods use algorithms that incorporate threshold light techniques to determine longitude and latitude. More recently, researchers have begun using sea surface temperature (SST) to determine latitude in temperate regions. The accuracy and application of these algorithms have not been validated on free-ranging birds. Errors in both geolocation methods were quantified by double-tagging Laysan (Phoebastria immutabilis Rothschild) and black-footed (P. nigripes Audubon) albatrosses with both leg-mounted archival tags that measured SST and ambient light, and satellite transmitters. Laysan albatrosses were captured and released from breeding colonies on Tern Island, northwestern Hawaiian Islands (23°52′N, 166°17′W) and Guadalupe Island, Mexico (28°31′N, 118°10′W) and black-footed albatrosses from Tern Island. Studies were carried out between December 2002 and March 2003. For all birds combined, the mean ± SD great circle (GC) distance between light-based locations and satellite-derived locations was 400±298 km (n=131). Errors in geolocation positions were reduced to 202±171 km (n=154) when light-based longitude and SST-based latitude (i.e. SST/light) were used to establish locations. The SST/light method produced comparable results for two Laysan albatross populations that traveled within distinctly different oceanic regions (open ocean vs more coastal) whereas light-based methods produced greater errors in the coastal population. Archival tags deployed on black-footed albatrosses returned a significantly higher proportion of lower-quality locations, which was attributed to interference of the light sensor on the tag. Overall, the results demonstrate that combining measures of light-based longitude and SST-based latitude significantly reduces the error in location estimates for albatrosses and can provide valid latitude estimates during the equinoxes, when light-based latitude measurements are indeterminate.

4/1533: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitelinkedacousticreceiverstoobservebehavioroffishesinremoteareas> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Satellite-linked acoustic receivers to observe behavior of fishes in remote areas
Automated acoustic receivers are now widely used by biologists to study the behavior of fish. However, currently available acoustic receivers require physical recovery of the units to download stored data. Such operation is often difficult in remote study areas like in the open ocean. We present a new satellite-linked acoustic receiver (Vemco VR3-Argos) that allows downloading data through a satellite uplink (Argos). The VR3-Argos can last up to one year, sending GPS positions and tag data at regular time intervals. We illustrate the advantages of this new technology with tagging data from 121 fish of seven species (yellowfin tuna, bigeye tuna, skipjack tuna, wahoo, dolphinfish, silky shark and oceanic triggerfish) caught and released around drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean, far from any land. In opposition with the classic acoustic receivers (Vemco VR2), the use of VR3-Argos allowed to collect data for several weeks after leaving the drifting FADs. Maximum residence times of 3 days for bigeye tuna, 7 days for skipjack, 8 days for wahoo, 10 days for silky shark and 15 days for yellowfin tuna, dolphinfish and oceanic triggerfish could be recorded. VR2 and VR3-Argos are equivalent in terms of quality of residence times data, however depth data obtained through satellites are aggregated in 8 classes for compression purposes, which leads to a loss of precision available with raw data. Future directions of this technology are discussed.

5/1534: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteonthestockstructureofpacificbigeyetunatobeusedinstockassessments> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Note on the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna to be used in stock assessments
This paper reviews and discusses the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna in relation with the prospects of stock assessment analysis of this population. The analysis of fishery data, mainly the spatio temporal bigeye catches by gear and by sizes, indicates that the present 150°W frontier based on historical and administrative results does not appear to be a convenient biological frontier. Our conclusion is that the present lack of significant tag recoveries across the 150°W frontier should not be considered as being significant, due to the limited numbers of bigeye presently tagged and to the great distances between present tagging locations. North South movements of adult bigeye are also a potential source of mixing between eastern and western bigeye populations. It is hypothetized that there could be an increased net flow of juvenile bigeye towards the WCPO due to the increased number of FADs in the western EPO. Our conclusion is that all the bigeye stock assessments by WCPFC and the IATTC should preferably be conducted in a unified best model and at a Pacific wide scale. A large scale tagging programme covering the distribution area of the entire bigeye population and fully coordinated between WCPFC and IATTC would be necessary to obtain realistic and age specific movement patterns at a Pacific wide level. Management actions of the bigeye stocks should also be fully coordinated between the Western and Eastern stocks, because of the probably weak biological frontier and also because of the bigeye long life span. The long term management benefits or failures will probably be shared by WCPFC and IATTC.

6/1535: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deepdivingbehaviorobservedinyellowfintunathunnusalbacares> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Deep diving behavior observed in yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares)
Yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares) are known to preferentially occupy the surface mixed layer above the thermocline and it has been suggested that they are physiologically restricted to water temperatures no more than 8 °C colder than surface waters. However, we here report for dive data acquired from a large yellowfin tuna which demonstrate for the first time that this species is indeed capable of making prolonged dives into deep cold waters. A yellowfin tuna (134 cm fork length) caught near an anchored fish aggregating device (FAD) in the Seychelles (Western Indian Ocean) was equipped with an internally implanted archival tag and released. The fish was recaptured 98 days later. As predicted for this species, this fish spent 85% of its time shallower than 75 m (maximum thermocline depth experienced by the fish) but, over the course of the track, it performed three deep dives to 578 m, 982 m and 1160 m. Minimum ambient water temperatures recorded at these depths were 8.6 °C, 7.4 °C and 5.8 °C respectively and varied by up to 23.3 °C from surface temperatures. The fish spent 8.3% of its time in waters more than 8 °C colder than the surface layer and daily experienced a wide range of sea temperatures (mode at 15-16 °C) and of temperatures of the gut cavity (mode at 6 °C). The reason for these dives can not be known. These depths and temperatures significantly exceed those reported in the literature so far and clearly demonstrate that this species has the physiological and behavioral ability to penetrate deep cold sections of the ocean.

7/1536: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/wherehavethetagsgonesimulationoftagssintagasimplemodeltoestimatethenumberandsizeoftunastaggedbytherttpiothatarecurrentlystillalive> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Where have the tags gone? SImulatioN of TAGs (SINTAG): A simple model to estimate the number and size of tunas tagged by the RTTP-IO that are currently still alive.
The large scale Regional Tuna Tagging Programme in the Indian Ocean (RTTP-IO) has reported a 14% return rate of the 168.000 tuna tagged between 2005 and 2007. Approximately 96% of these returns have been reported from the purse seine fishery. This has lead to speculation that the tagged tuna have not yet reached sizes at which they could be caught by longliners (bigeye and yellowfin) or by the baitboat fishery (skipjack) A simple exponential decay and growth model has, however, indicated that this may not be the case, and tagged individuals should be available to these fisheries. It would thus appear that tagged tuna are not being reported by the longline and baitboat fisheries and an effort should be made to increase the level of tag reporting in those fleets in order to maximise the usefulness of the data obtained from the RTTP-IO.

8/1537: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/tunamovementpatternspresentlyshownintheindianoceanbytagrecoveriesfromtheiottptaggingprogram> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Tuna movement patterns presently shown in the Indian Ocean by tag recoveries from the IOTTP tagging program
This paper examines the movement patterns shown by the recoveries of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye tagged by dart tags during the IOTTP large scale tagging. This analysis is based on a large number of 6236 recoveries belonging to the 3 species. These 3 species show similar movement patterns, and these recovered tunas, tagged in a limited number of peculiar areas, are showing very wide and very fast movement patterns, skipjack being the more mobile species. As a result, the recoveries of the 3 species have been widely scattered in the entire fishing zone of purse seiners, a fishery with large catches and with very good reporting of tags recoveries. This rather extreme mobility of the tagged tunas is quite unique world wide and it remains widely  unexplained. This study also shows and discusses the strange lack of significant recoveries by the Maldivian skipjack fisheries. It also confirms the insufficient rate of tag reporting by longliners and by various coastal fisheries, that are still presently limiting the knowledge of the real movement patterns at a larger scale of yellowfin and bigeye in their global Indian Ocean habitat.

9/1538: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fasstafullyagesizeandspacetimestructuredstatisticalmodelfortheassessmentoftunapopulations> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : FASST: a fully age-size and space-time structured statistical model for the assessment of tuna populations
This paper describes the model FASST. FASST is a fully structured age, size, space and time
stock assessment model. It is expressed as a deterministic system of partial differential
equations continuous in age, size and time. Space is represented using large discrete zones
interconnected by exchange rates. All the parameterizations used to represent recruitment,
growth, mortality and movements are chosen to be size-dependent and age independent.
Consequently, for simplicity purposes, the age dimension can be simplified. The model is
integrated numerically to simulate the stock dynamics. A complex process -and observationerror
framework is used to estimate the model parameters, and hence the past stock status, in
a Bayesian context. The model uses simultaneously most fishery data currently available for
tuna stock assessment such as catch by fleet in number and weight, length-frequency samples,
otolith analysis, tag-recapture data. It provides a new way to integrate that information into a
consistent stock assessment framework.

10/1539: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anupdatedanalysisoftagsheddingbytropicaltunasintheindianocean> : SCORE = 1.504374
Doc : An Updated Analysis of Tag-Shedding by Tropical Tunas in the Indian Ocean.
Tag shedding experiment was conducted during the Regional Tuna tagging
Project-Indian Ocean by double-tagging part of the tuna released (27,850
double tags with 4,650 recoveries) with the objective of assessing the tag
shedding rate (type-1 shedding (immediate shedding and tagging-induced
mortality) and tag-2 shedding (continuous shedding and tag-induced
mortality)). This rate was assessed by estimating α and λ of the probability
of tag retention equation Q(t) = α [β/(β+λt)]β). For SKJ α = 0.987, λ (per
year) = 0.015; for YFT α = 0.977, λ (per year) = 0.041 and for BET α =
0.996, λ (per year) = 0.024. These results are comparable to others obtained
from large-scale tropical tuna tagging project.

11/1540: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/approachestoresolvingcephalopodmovementandmigrationpatterns> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Approaches to resolving cephalopod movement and migration patterns
Cephalopod movement occurs during all phases of the life history, with the abundance and location of cephalopod populations strongly influenced by the prevalence and scale of their movements. Environmental parameters, such as sea temperature and oceanographic processes, have a large influence on movement at the various life cycle stages, particularly those of oceanic squid. Tag recapture studies are the most common way of directly examining cephalopod movement, particularly in species which are heavily fished. Electronic tags, however, are being more commonly used to track cephalopods, providing detailed small- and large-scale movement information. Chemical tagging of paralarvae through maternal transfer may prove to be a viable technique for tracking this little understood cephalopod life stage, as large numbers of individuals could be tagged at once. Numerous indirect methods can also be used to examine cephalopod movement, such as chemical analyses of the elemental and/or isotopic signatures of cephalopod hard parts, with growing interest in utilising these techniques for elucidating migration pathways, as is commonly done for fish. Geographic differences in parasite fauna have also been used to indirectly provide movement information, however, explicit movement studies require detailed information on parasite-host specificity and parasite geographic distribution, which is yet to be determined for cephalopods. Molecular genetics offers a powerful approach to estimating realised effective migration rates among populations, and continuing developments in markers and analytical techniques hold the promise of more detailed identification of migrants. To date genetic studies indicate that migration in squids is extensive but can be blocked by major oceanographic features, and in cuttlefish and octopus migration is more locally restricted than predictions from life history parameters would suggest. Satellite data showing the location of fishing lights have been increasingly used to examine the movement of squid fishing vessels, as a proxy for monitoring the movement of the squid populations themselves, allowing for the remote monitoring of oceanic species.



1329) Recherche du mot : Wreckfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/polyprion_americanus)


1330) Recherche du mot : Thon gros yeux (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_obesus)


1331) Recherche du mot : Thresher sharks nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/caranx_sp)


1332) Recherche du mot : Green jobfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/aprion_virescens)


1333) Recherche du mot : Lancier longnez (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alepisaurus_ferox)


1334) Recherche du mot : Jacks, crevalles nei (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/caranx_sp)


1335) Recherche du mot : rampe arrière (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/rampe_arriere)


1336) Recherche du mot : scrawled filefish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/aluterus_scriptus)


1337) Recherche du mot : Main Wind Force Resisting System (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mwfrs)


1338) Recherche du mot : coral ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/coral_ecosystem)


1339) Recherche du mot : avifaune (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/avifauna)


1340) Recherche du mot : Ecosystème méditerranéen (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mediterranean_ecosystem)


1341) Recherche du mot : Neon flying squid (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ommastrephes_bartrami)


1342) Recherche du mot : shelf (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/shelf)
1/1541: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/seasonalvariabilityoflivingbenthicforaminiferafromtheoutercontinentalshelfofthebayofbiscay> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Seasonal variability of living benthic foraminifera from the outer continental shelf of the Bay of Biscay


2/1542: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/applicationofachlorophyllindexderivedfromsatellitedatatoinvestigatethevariabilityofphytoplanktoninthebenguelaecosystem> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Application of a chlorophyll index derived from satellite data to investigate the variability of phytoplankton in the Benguela ecosystem
The spatial and temporal variability in phytoplankton biomass in the Benguela ecosystem was investigated over an 8-year period using a chlorophyll index (Chi Index) derived from low resolution SeaWiFS ocean colour data. Monthly composite images revealed that the surface chlorophyll a concentration was high near the coast and generally decreased with distance offshore, allowing observation of the spatial extent of phytoplankton distribution in relation to coastal upwelling. The Chi Index was estimated as the integration of the chlorophyll a concentration from the coast to an offshore minimum level of 1mg m(-3). The index captured both the cross-shelf structure and the major part of the chlorophyllrich areas and was used to examine the average seasonality and annual variability in phytoplankton biomass. The data indicated that the Benguela ecosystem may be divided into two major sectors, north and south, with the divide occurring at the Luderitz upwelling cell where the Chi Index, the chlorophyll a concentration, and the offshore extent of phytoplankton were at a minimum. The index revealed a clearer and more contrasting seasonal pattern than simple coastal averaged values of chlorophyll. The latitudinal gradient and seasonal change in the index and wind forcing showed that the northern and southern sectors were out of phase and that the Benguela ecosystem appears to have a dipole structure. The interannual variation in biomass was highlighted and showed a high variability in the dipole, including shorter periods of synchronicity during 2001 and 2002. The simple Chi Index derived for the Benguela appears to be robust and generic enough to be applied to other upwelling systems as a reasonably good index of variability in phytoplankton biomass for comparative studies.

3/1543: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/assessingtheimpactoffisheriesondemersalfishassemblagesofthemauritaniancontinentalshelfusingdominancecurves> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Assessing the impact of fisheries on demersal fish assemblages of the Mauritanian continental shelf, 1987–1999, using dominance curves
The assemblages of demersal fish and associated species of the Mauritanian continental
shelf are characterized on the basis of annual trawl surveys conducted during the period
1987e1999. Species composition is dominated by exploited species (Dentex spp., Pagellus
bellottii, and Octopus vulgaris). Dominance curves (Abundance Biomass Comparison
plots) were used to evaluate the impact of fisheries, which have increased in magnitude over
several decades. The diagnosis of a ‘‘stressed'' assemblage seems to converge with the
results of a similar study conducted off Senegal, but here there was no trend in impact
during the period of study. The sensitivity of the present results to the various ways of
considering the available taxonomic information is also analysed.

4/1544: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/benthiccommunityandfoodwebstructureonthecontinentalshelfofthebayofbiscaynortheasternatlanticrevealedbystableisotopesanalysis> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Benthic community and food web structure on the continental shelf of the Bay of Biscay (North Eastern Atlantic) revealed by stable isotopes analysis


5/1545: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/zooplanktonandforagefishspeciesoffperulargescalebottomupforcingandlocalscaledepletion> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Zooplankton and forage fish species off Peru: large-scale bottom-up forcing and local-scale depletion
The Humboldt Current System, like all upwelling systems, has dramatic quantities of plankton-feeding fish, which suggested that their population dynamics may ‘drive' or ‘control' ecosystem dynamics. With this in mind we analysed the relationship between forage fish populations and their main prey, zooplankton populations. Our study combined a zooplankton sampling program (1961–2005) with simultaneous acoustic observations on fish from 40 pelagic surveys (1983–2005) conducted by the Peruvian Marine Research Institute (IMARPE) and landing statistics for anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) along the Peruvian coast from 1961 to 2005. The multi-year trend of anchoveta population abundance varied consistently with zooplankton biovolume trend, suggesting bottom-up control on anchovy at the population scale (since oceanographic conditions and phytoplankton production support the changes in zooplankton abundance). For a finer-scale analysis (km) we statistically modelled zooplankton biovolume as a function of geographical (latitude and distance from the 200-m isobath), environmental (sea surface temperature), temporal (year, month and time-of-day) and biological (acoustic anchovy and sardine biomass within 5 km of each zooplankton sample) covariates over all survey using both classification and regression trees (CART) and generalized additive models (GAM). CART showed local anchoveta density to have the strongest effect on zooplankton biovolume, with significantly reduced levels of biovolume for higher neighbourhood anchoveta biomass. Additionally, zooplankton biovolume was higher offshore than on the shelf. GAM results corroborated the CART findings, also showing a clear diel effect on zooplankton biovolume, probably due to diel migration or daytime net avoidance. Apparently, the observed multi-year population scale bottom-up control is not inconsistent with local depletion of zooplankton when anchoveta are locally abundant, since the latter effect was observed over a wide range of overall anchoveta abundance.

6/1546: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/functionalgroupbiodiversityineasternboundaryupwellingecosystemsquestionsthewaspwaisttrophicstructure> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Functional group biodiversity in Eastern Boundary Upwelling Ecosystems questions the wasp-waist trophic structure
The species diversity of the four major Eastern Boundary Upwelling Ecosystems (EBUEs) is studied and compared with the aim of better understanding their functioning. Functional groups (FGs) of organisms were defined according to their taxonomy, body size and trophic level (TL), and span from plankton to top predators. Four large sub-divisions are defined in each system: two latitudinal sub-divisions (north and south) and two zonal sub-divisions (inshore and offshore), resulting in four sub-ecosystems per EBUE. A semi-quantitative approach is used in which only the dominant species (contributing 90% of overall biomass) are considered. EBUEs are compared in regard to their species composition, dominant species richness and evenness within FGs. The data are interpreted, focusing on latitudinal, zonal and depth gradients of diversity. Trophic flows (inflow and outflow) through the small pelagic fish FG are derived from different Ecopath models. This analysis of the four ecosystems and their sub-divisions does not provide support for the expected wasp-waist food web structure and functioning, with a single or several species of small pelagic fish primarily channelling the energy flow from lower to higher TL. Instead, similar low levels of richness were observed in many FGs of intermediate TL, allowing several energy transfer pathways. The gamma diversity is high due to the geographical distance between EBUEs and the presence or absence of rivers, but not to differences in their latitudinal position. The beta diversity is also high, due to the same factors plus the variation in shelf width and the contrast between inshore and offshore sub-divisions. The differences in richness and evenness among EBUEs are minor and do not explain the higher secondary and tertiary productivity of the Humboldt ecosystem.

7/1547: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/surfacecurrentsduringanomalousupwellingseasonsoffcentralcalifornia> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Surface currents during anomalous upwelling seasons off central California
An extensive spatio-temporal surface currents dataset from central California, USA is
used to examine in detail two extreme years in the California Current. 2006 is
characterized by an extended period of calm winds during the critical early months of the
upwelling season (April, May). This lead to little or no upwelling over this period,
essentially delaying the onset of the upwelling season. 2007 is characterized by
extremely strong alongshore wind stress during the first quarter of the year and during the
early part of the upwelling season. This produced monthly-mean alongshore current
velocities over the mid-shelf for April 2007 in excess of 0.7 m s-1, which has not been
previously observed in this region for periods of more than a few days since the
installation of the HF radar instruments in 2001. Both of these extremes appear to have
had important consequences for the coastal ecosystem that have been documented
elsewhere, including the collapse of parts of the trophic web (2006) and the presence of
large quantities of water of deep origin over the continental shelf (2007). Understanding
and describing circulation and transport patterns during these extremes is important in
light of predictions from global climate change, which may cause these extreme
conditions to occur more frequently.

8/1548: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/forecastingshelfprocessesofrelevancetomarineresourcesinthebclme> : SCORE = 2.4566321
Doc : Forecasting shelf processes of relevance to marine resources in the BCLME


9/1549: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingforecastingandscenariosincomparableupwellingecosystemscaliforniacanaryandhumboldt> : SCORE = 0.30707902
Doc : Modelling, forecasting and scenarios in comparable upwelling ecosystems: California, Canary and Humboldt
The three eastern boundary ecosystems comparable to the Benguela ecosystem (BCE)
display differences and commonalities. The California (CalCE) and Humboldt Current
(HCE) ecosystems are continuous topographically, whereas the Canary Current
ecosystem (CanCE) is interrupted by the Gulf of Cadiz and the Canaries archipelago.
All have similar regimes of equatorward flow over shelf and slope associated with
upwelling and a subsurface poleward flow over the slope, though in the HCE multiple
flows and counter-flows appear offshore. All systems exhibit year round upwelling in
their centre and seasonal upwelling at their extremes as the trade wind systems that
drive them migrate north and south, though the HCE is strongly skewed toward the
equator. All systems vary on scales from the event or synoptic scale of a few days,
through seasonal, to inter-decadal and long term. Productivity of each system follows
the upwelling cycle, though intra-regional variations in nutrient content and forcing
cause significant variability within regions. The CanCE is relatively unproductive
compared to the CalCE and HCE as a result of differences in large scale circulation
between the Pacific and Atlantic. The latter two systems are dominated by El Niño -
Southern Oscillation (ENSO) variability on a scale of 4-7 years. Physical modeling
with the Princeton Ocean Model and the Regional Oceanic Modeling System has
advanced recently to the stage of reproducing realistic mesoscale features and energy
levels with climatic wind forcing. Operational forecasting by these models with
assimilation of sea surface temperature and other data is successfully implemented in
CalCE. On longer time scales, the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory model is able
to hindcast El Niño variability over the long term up to 2 years in advance. Empirical
ecological models in all three systems have attempted prediction of permissible catch
level (fractional Maximum Sustainable Yield), recruitment, catches or onset of
migration with lack of continued success, partly because discontinuous or inadequate
observations hamper model implementation and assessment. Moreover, empirical
models tuned to particular environments fail when fundamental regime shifts occur.
One of the most successful approaches is that of intensive monitoring of catch and
188 P. Fréon
environmental parameters linked to an informal Operational Management Procedure
(OMP) to inform fisheries management off Peru. This OMP contributed to
preservation of anchovy stock during the 1997-8 El Niño but remains to be formalized
or tested under varying conditions. Prediction on time scales of global warming are
uncertain because physical climate models still disagree on whether upwelling will
intensify or weaken. Possible scenarios on decadal scale based on warming or cooling
of waters in the Eastern Boundary Current systems can be proffered, albeit with little
confidence at present. Future approaches for all systems, including the BCE, will in
the long run likely combine coupled atmospheric/ocean models with biological process
models. Judicious application of purely statistical modeling based on inherent time
series properties will assist, though such techniques are unable to cope with regime
shifts.

10/1550: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingsardineandanchovyichthyoplanktontransportinthecanarycurrentsystem> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Modelling sardine and anchovy ichthyoplankton transport in the Canary Current System
The Canary Current System, centred along the north-western coast of Africa, is one of the four major eastern boundary currents of the world ocean. It sustains a large amount of small pelagic fish, mainly sardine (Sardina pilchardus; Sardinella spp.) and anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus). One of the particularities of this system is the presence of the Canary archipelago, which is close enough to the continental coast to allow exchange of biological material between the two areas. We use intermediate-resolution (7 km) hydrodynamic simulations as inputs for an individual-based model to assess the transport of ichthyoplankton (i) along the African coast and (ii) from the African coast to the Canary archipelago. We explored different scenarios of passive versus active vertically swimming larvae to assess the possible impact of vertical migration on transport and retention. Transport along the coast was essentially southward. The zone located between Cape Draa and Cape Juby had relatively high levels of retention in autumn and winter. The zone extending from Cape Boujdor up to Cape Blanc had high retention levels during the entire year. Larvae transported from the coast to the archipelago came mainly from the area located between Cape Ghir and Cape Juby, whereas larvae retained in the eddy field downstream of the islands originated mainly from the area between Cape Juby to Dakhla. The results are discussed in relation to available field data of anchovy and sardine egg distributions over the continental shelf, and compared with oceanic surveys of larval presence near the Canary archipelago.

11/1551: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatiotemporalhabitatusebybreedingsootyshearwaterspuffinusgriseus> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Spatio-temporal habitat use by breeding sooty shearwaters Puffinus griseus
Breeding sooty shearwaters (Puffinus griseus) cycle between long (11-14 days) and short (1-2 days) foraging bouts at sea, but no information exists on bird behaviour during these trips. We tested the hypothesis that shearwaters use these long trips to travel to distant Antarctic waters compared to remaining in local waters. Patterns of habitat use of 28 breeding sooty shearwaters were studied using 6-g archival data loggers that recorded location, environmental temperature, and diving behaviour. Dive activity was compared to remotely-sensed environmental data to characterize the habitats visited by shearwaters on long and short trips. Indeed, sooty shearwaters traveled predominantly (70% of all long trips) to cold oceanic waters along the Polar Front (1,970 ± 930 km from colony) on long trips or remained within warmer neritic waters of the New Zealand shelf (515 ± 248 km from colony) on short trips. Diving depths (mean depth 15.9 ± 10.8 m, max depth 69.9 m, N = 2,007 dives) were not statistically different between excursion types. Activity patterns suggest that shearwaters commuted between distant foraging grounds (e.g., Polar Front) and the breeding colony and that more than 95% of diving activity occurred during daylight hours. Although shearwaters traveled primarily to Antarctic waters on long trips, occasional trips around New Zealand waters were observed; all but two birds were from the northern most study colony. Oceanic habitats in Antarctic waters were substantially different from neritic habitats around New Zealand indicating that shearwaters experience dramatically different environmental conditions associated with each excursion type. The ability of sooty shearwaters to utilize two vastly different habitats provides greater flexibility for maximizing resource acquisition during breeding and reduces competition near the colony

12/1552: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hfradarobservationsofsurfacecirculationoffbodegabaynortherncaliforniausa> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : HF radar observations of surface circulation off Bodega Bay (northern California, USA)
[1] Two high-frequency radar stations (CODAR) were installed along the northern California coast in May 2001. Comparisons of radar data with acoustic Doppler current profiler ( ADCP) current data and near-surface drifter tracks indicate considerable agreement, with minimum RMS differences of order 0.05 - 0.15 m/s and average drifter-HF-radar track separation rates of 5 +/- 3 km/d. Radar data resolve the three main sources of intraseasonal current variability in the area: ( 1) upwelling/relaxation dynamics, ( 2) tidal and diurnal forcing, and ( 3) inertial currents. Subtidal fluctuations are the largest component of variability, accounting for 45 - 75% of the variance. Wind-driven dynamics are the dominant source of this subtidal variability (67% of subtidal variability). Both upwelling and relaxation periods exhibit consistent patterns of surface velocity, with nearshore currents being slower and more poleward than offshore currents, which are strongly equatorward. Analysis of tidal and inertial variability indicate that current fluctuations are polarized toward clockwise rotation and are generally weaker and more linearly polarized near the coast. M-2 tidal current ellipses switch direction of rotation at the shelf break, suggesting the presence of internal tidal waves. Currents in all frequency bands are deflected and accelerated around Pt. Reyes, and there are indications of increased current variability and changes in flow direction near Cordell Bank. The presence of considerable cross-shore and alongshore gradients in the strength and direction of surface flow patterns, and in particular weak poleward currents over the inner shelf, could have important consequences for plankton retention in the area.

13/1553: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thenorthernhumboldtcurrentsystembriefhistorypresentstatusandaviewtowardsthefuture> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : The northern Humboldt Current System: Brief history, present status and a view towards the future
INTRODUCTION 
The tropical ocean off the west coast of South America is notable for several reasons. First, it is unusually cool for an ocean that is so close to the equator with sea surface temperatures at 5 °S off Peru as cool as 16 °C when most other tropical locations are in excess of 25 °C. Upwelling of cool waters brings phytoplankton nutrients to the surface, dramatically increasing biological productivity in this low-latitude region of few storms. Second, as a result of the enhanced productivity, the northern Humboldt Current System (HCS) off Peru produces more fish per unit area than any other region in the world oceans (Fig. 1), representing less than 0.1% of the world ocean surface but presently producing about 10% of the world fish catch. Third, as a result of sinking and decay of surface-derived primary production and poor ventilation, surface oxygenated waters overlie an intense and extremely shallow Oxygen Minimum Zone (OMZ). The OMZ forms a barrier to some animals, concentrating living resources near the surface. At the other end of the spectrum different forms of marine life have adapted to this harsh environment, some utilizing it as a refuge from predation. The OMZ also affects global nutrient budgets, as nitrate instead of oxygen is used by bacteria as a terminal electron acceptor. Fourth, beneath the OMZ, in layered continental shelf sediments the absence of oxygen preserves dead organisms, creating a record of past ecosystem and climate changes. Fifth, through ocean/atmosphere coupling, the northern HCS is intimately linked to equatorial Pacific dynamics and is subject to large interannual to multidecadal fluctuations in climate, ecosystems and its fisheries.

14/1554: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/nitrogenandcarbonisotopevaluesofindividualaminoacidsatooltostudyforagingecologyofpenguinsinthesouthernocean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Nitrogen and carbon isotope values of individual amino acids: a tool to study foraging ecology of penguins in the Southern Ocean
We determined the δ15N and δ13C values of individual amino acids (AAs) isolated from chick blood of 4 penguin species that forage in different oceanic regions (from the subtropics of the Indian Ocean to Antarctica) to test if: (1) the δ15N values of phenylalanine (δ15N phe) revealed different foraging areas among the species; (2) the difference between glutamic acid and phenylalanine δ15N values (Δδ15Nglu-phe) accurately predicted trophic levels; and (3) the δ13C value of AAs could resolve species foraging locations, similar to bulk δ13C values. The δ13C values of all AAs decreased with latitude, were positively correlated with bulk δ13C data, and, therefore, tracked the isotopic baseline. However, we were not able to discern additional ecological information from these δ13C values. In contrast, the δ15N values of AAs distinguished the isotopic value of the nitrogen at the base of the food web from the trophic level of the consumer, providing new insight for the study of the trophic ecology of seabirds. The difference in the bulk δ15N values of northern and southern rockhopper penguins Eudyptes chrysocome ssp. was due to both a difference in their foraging location (different δ15N phe) and their trophic levels (different Δδ15Nglu-phe). The δ15N phe values of king Aptenodytes patagonicus and Adélie penguins Pygoscelis adeliae were higher than those of rockhoppers, which could reflect a foraging on mesopelagic prey for king penguins and, in the highly productive Antarctic shelf waters, for Adelie penguins. The Δδ15Nglu-phe accurately reflected the relative trophic level of penguins, but further work is required to determine the trophic enrichment factors for compound-specific isotope analysis.

15/1555: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thermalandtrophichabitatsoftheleatherbackturtleduringthenestingseasoninfrenchguiana> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Thermal and trophic habitats of the leatherback turtle during the nesting season in French Guiana
Understanding environmental cues determining behaviour and habitat use of species of conservation
concern is crucial if one aims at implementing sustainable management of these natural resources. In this
way, here, we investigate the thermal and trophic conditions encountered by the critically endangered
leatherback sea turtle Dermochelys coriacea during its nesting season in French Guiana where high bycatch
rates have been reported.
Mean sea water temperatures obtained in situ by animal-borne recorders were 26.6±0.7 °C in the water
column, with all but one turtle remaining in water N25 °C during the inter-nesting interval. In terms of prey
availability, regular jellyfish stranding events were recorded during the nesting season, on a 1.25-km long
section of the nesting beach. The occurrence of jellyfish was supported by benthic trawls performed on the
continental shelf, with a total of 45.4 kg of jellyfish collected in 3.5 h exclusively in coastal waters 10 to 20 m
deep where water transparency was between 0.8 and 3 m. This is consistent with the at sea distribution area
of gravid leatherbacks during their inter-nesting intervals, as they spent almost 70% of their time diving in
shallow (b20 m deep) waters in front of the Maroni River estuary. In French Guiana, leatherback's gelatinous
prey are thus present in very shallow water close to the nesting site and may be easily exploited by active
gravid leatherbacks. This suggests that French Guiana female leatherbacks may be influenced by local trophic
conditions and actively prospect productive areas overlapping with local fisheries ground.

16/1556: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/doesverticalmigratorybehaviourretainfishlarvaeonshoreinupwellingecosystemsamodellingstudyofanchovyinthesouthernbenguela> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Does vertical migratory behaviour retain fish larvae onshore in upwelling ecosystems? A modelling study of anchovy in the southern Benguela
A spatially explicit individual-based model (IBM) forced by 3D temperature and current fields simulated by a hydrodynamic model of the southern Benguela upwelling region was used to test two hypotheses concerning the role of diel vertical migration (DVM) by Cape anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus larvae and pre-recruits. These hypotheses were that: (1) DVM enhances alongshore transport of anchovy eggs and larvae from the spawning grounds to the nursery area while avoiding the lethal effect of low water temperatures in the upwelling system, and/or (2) DVM enhances the transport of larvae and pre-recruits from the offshore to the onshore domain of the nursery area, and then counteracts offshore advection by favouring retention. We tracked the trajectories of virtual particles in the model and calculated a pre-recruitment index as a proxy for transport success to the nursery area (onshore and offshore) and found that the indexincreased from 10% to 20% after the incorporation of larval vertical migration into the IBM, with virtual individuals held at depths of around 60 m showing maximal pre-recruitment index values. Hence, DVM does appear to enhance transport to the nursery area (offshore) for early and late larvae. Model outputs showed coarse-scale horizontal distribution patterns of larvae by age/size class that are similar to field observations for early, small larvae but not for large larvae and pre-recruits. Observations show that early/ small larvae are located offshore whereas older/ larger larvae and pre-recruits are found closer to the continental shelf and the inner nursery grounds. This disparity between model results and field observations does not support the hypothesis that DVM is one of the mechanisms involved in the onshore movement of early life-history stages, especially for large larvae.

17/1557: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/multipleforagingstrategiesinamarineapexpredatorthegalapagossealionzalophuswollebaeki> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Multiple foraging strategies in a marine apex predator, the Galapagos sea lion Zalophus wollebaeki
Three fundamental foraging patterns in air-breathing marine vertebrates have been described: epipelagic, mesopelagic and benthic. Many sea lion species with access to extensive continental shelves have been described as benthic foragers. Coincidently these species are considered threatened. The Galapagos sea lion Zalophus wollebaeki, a top predator in the Galapagos Islands, is also considered threatened in this ecosystem. Sea lions at the central part of the archipelago have access to a vast continental shelf. For this reason we hypothesized that sea lions within this region would dive benthically. In addition, effective protection and conservation of this species requires knowledge of their foraging patterns and habitat utilization. We investigated the diving behaviour and habitat utilization of female Z. wollebaeki of a centrally located colony situated inside the highest density area of the population using time-depth recorders and satellite telemetry. Three distinct foraging patterns were found and described (shallow, deep and bottom divers), and individuals utilizing each pattern foraged in different locations. Epipelagic, mesopelagic and benthic dives were exhibited in the sea lions' diving behaviour, but these dive types were not exclusively associated with a foraging pattern. Between foraging trips females hauled out more frequently on other islands than they did on their breeding colony. The finding of 3 distinct foraging patterns that differ spatially has direct implications for management, particularly with regard to fisheries interactions. Marine protected areas can be implemented in the regions described as Z. wollebaeki foraging areas. Z. wollebaeki's wide foraging range coupled with their use of multiple haul-out sites should be considered in future studies when determining foraging trip lengths and habitat utilization since presence/absence from the colony does not reflect foraging trip length.

18/1558: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/westanortherncaliforniastudyoftheroleofwinddriventransportintheproductivityofcoastalplanktoncommunities> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : WEST: A northern California study of the role of wind-driven transport in the productivity of coastal plankton communities
The ‶Wind Events and Shelf Transport'' (WEST) program was an interdisciplinary study of coastal upwelling off northern California in 2000-03. WEST was comprised of modeling and field observations. The primary goal of WEST was to better describe and understand the competing influences of wind forcing on planktonic productivity in coastal waters. While increased upwelling-favorable winds lead to increased nutrient supply, they also result in reduced light exposure due to deeper surface mixed layers and increased advective loss of plankton from coastal waters. The key to understanding high levels of productivity, amidst these competing responses to wind forcing, is the temporal and spatial structure of upwelling. Temporal fluctuations and spatial patterns allow strong upwelling that favors nutrient delivery to be juxtaposed with less energetic conditions that favor stratification and plankton blooms. Observations of winds, ocean circulation, nutrients, phytoplankton and zooplankton off Bodega Bay and Point Reyes (38 degrees N) were combined with model studies of winds, circulation and productivity. This overview of the WEST program provides an introduction to the WEST special issue of Deep-Sea Research, including the motivation for WEST, a summary of study components, an integrative synthesis of major research results to-date, and background on conditions during field studies in May-June 2001 (the upwelling period on which this special issue is focused). (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All. rights reserved.

19/1559: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/hfradarderivedoriginanddestinationofsurfacewatersoffbodegabaycalifornia> : SCORE = 0.9478638
Doc : HF radar-derived origin and destination of surface waters off Bodega Bay, California
As an integral part of the WEST study of the role of wind-driven transport in shelf productivity, HF radar currents are analyzed to determine typical surface flow patterns off Bodega Bay in northern California. Radar-derived surface trajectories and surface velocity divergences are used to determine the proximal origins and destinations of surface waters in the area. Surface trajectory results show a strong bimodality, with water over the entire shelf originating in the north under upwelling conditions and waters over the inner/mid-shelf originating in the south during relaxation conditions. Outer shelf waters have more variable transport patterns during relaxation conditions, with limited equatorward or onshore movements being most typical. The destinations of surface waters starting at the outer shelf are predominantly offshore, with the majority of particles exiting the radar domain west of Pt Reyes along the shelf edge in less than 2 days. Significant proportions of water from the inner/mid-shelf are exported southward and exit the radar domain inshore or within 20 km of the tip of Pt Reyes, creating possibilities for either nearshore retention in the Bodega region or entrainment of water into the Gulf of Farallons. Approximately 15% of all trajectories remained in the radar domain for 6 days, suggesting that a biologically significant percentage of larvae might be retained in the area for time periods approaching typical larval durations. Calculations of surface divergence indicate where vertical flux may be significant. An extensive area of positive divergence is observed off Bodega during upwelling conditions, while weakly convergent flow is observed where upwelling flows approach Pt Reyes. Positive divergence also is observed during relaxation periods when poleward flow separates from the shore just north of Pt Reyes. Estimates of vertical flux in these divergence zones point to a significant contribution of recently upwelled waters to the observed horizontal fluxes at the surface. Determination of the ultimate source and fate of phytoplankton-rich waters requires further analysis of the detailed time dependence of phytoplankton concentration relative to the time dependence of wind-forced currents. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.



1343) Recherche du mot : Requin pointe blanche (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_albimarginatus)


1344) Recherche du mot : avifauna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/avifauna)


1345) Recherche du mot : Diretmoides parini (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/diretmoides_parini)
1/1560: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragefaunainthedietofthreelargepelagicfishlancetfishswordfishandyellowfintunainthewesternequatorialindianocean> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Forage fauna in the diet of three large pelagic fish (lancetfish, swordfish and yellowfin tuna) in the western equatorial Indian Ocean
Prey composition and resource partitioning were investigated among three large pelagic fish predators, yellowfin tuna (Thunnus albacares), swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox), in a poorly known oceanic area, the western Indian Ocean. The contents of 380 non-empty stomachs were analysed from specimens caught with longlines during scientific cruises carried out from 2001 to 2003. Diet data were processed by occurrence, mean proportion by number, wet weight, and mean proportion by reconstituted weight. Crustaceans, dominated by the swimming crab Charybdis smithii and the stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris, were the major food source of lancetfish. Cannibalism was also significant for that species. Yellowfin tunas preyed upon a large diversity of mesopelagic fishes, crustaceans (C. smithii and crab larvae) and cephalopods (the ommastrephid Sthenoteuthis oualaniensis). Mesopelagic fishes (Cubiceps pauciradiatus and Diretmoides parini) and cephalopods (mainly S. oualaniensis) were the main prey of swordfish. Diet overlap between swordfish and yellowfin tuna was evidenced by high Morisita-Horn index. But the feeding habits of these three predators differed by foraging depth and prey size, with swordfish feeding at deeper depths and on larger prey than the more epipelagic lancetfish and yellowfin tuna. Using these three predators as biological samplers, the present study provides novel data on micronekton fauna that is poorly documented in the western Indian Ocean: 67 families and 84 species of prey were recovered in the stomach contents, and our results indicate the presence of large resources of pelagic crustaceans that play a primary role in the epipelagic food chain.



1346) Recherche du mot : Prickly fanfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pterycombus_petersii)


1347) Recherche du mot : Orcynopsis unicolor (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/orcynopsis_unicolor)


1348) Recherche du mot : shoal (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/shoal)
1/1561: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ices> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : ICES
Small and large pelagic fish are known to aggregate around fish aggregating devices (FADs). One major question in this field is: can fish abundance around FADs be used as a proxy of the total fish abundance in the area? This issue was first addressed through acoustic observations on small pelagic fish in a bay of Reunion island (Western Indian Ocean). Twenty artificial structures such as moored buoys, artificial reefs, aquaculture cages, submarine shipwreck or fishing FADS, are scattered in the bay from 15 m to 50 m depth. We conducted 28 acoustic surveys during new moon periods from February 2003 to August 2006 in order to (1) characterize the effects of FADs on small pelagic fish distributions, (2) study if there is any relationship between the abundance of FAD-associated and non FAD-associated (free) shoals. The frequency histogram of the distance between fish shoals and the nearest FAD revealed a 150 m FAD influence on the distribution of shoals. This distance was applied to distinguish FAD-associated shoals (< 150 m) from free shoals (> 150 m). For these two types of shoal and for each survey, shoal densities (number of shoals by nautical miles) and acoustic and morphological descriptors were then computed. FAD-associated shoal densities were significantly related to free shoal densities, suggesting correlative evidence between both. However, the regression performed on acoustic and morphological descriptors did not show clear relationship. The potential of using densities of shoals around FADs as a proxy for total density in the area is discussed.



1349) Recherche du mot : Men Cren (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/men_cren)


1350) Recherche du mot : Aguja azul (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_nigricans)


1351) Recherche du mot : Oceanography (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/oceanography)
1/1562: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactsofkelvinwaveforcingintheperuhumboldtcurrentsystemscenariosofspatialreorganizationsfromphysicstofishers> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Impacts of Kelvin wave forcing in the Peru Humboldt Current system: Scenarios of spatial reorganizations from physics to fishers
Because climate change challenges the sustainability of important fish populations and the fisheries they support, we need to understand how large scale climatic forcing affects the functioning of marine ecosystems. In the Humboldt Current system (HCS), a main driver of climatic variability is coastally-trapped Kelvin waves (KWs), themselves originating as oceanic equatorial KWs. Here we (i) describe the spatial reorganizations of living organisms in the Humboldt coastal system as affected by oceanic KWs forcing, (ii) quantify the strength of the interactions between the physical and biological component dynamics of the system, (iii) formulate hypotheses on the processes which drive the redistributions of the organisms, and (iv) build scenarios of space occupation in the HCS under varying KW forcing. To address these questions we explore, through bivariate lagged correlations and multivariate statistics, the relationships between time series of oceanic KW amplitude (TAO mooring data and model-resolved baroclinic modes) and coastal Peruvian oceanographic data (SST, coastal upwelled waters extent), anchoveta spatial distribution (mean distance to the coast, spatial concentration of the biomass, mean depth of the schools), and fishing fleet statistics (trip duration, searching duration, number of fishing sets and catch per trip, features of the foraging trajectory as observed by satellite vessel monitoring system). Data sets span all or part of January 1983 to September 2006. The results show that the effects of oceanic KW forcing are significant in all the components of the coastal ecosystem, from oceanography to the behaviour of the top predators – fishers. This result provides evidence for a bottom-up transfer of the behaviours and spatial stucturing through the ecosystem. We propose that contrasting scenarios develop during the passage of upwelling versus downwelling KWs. From a predictive point of view, we show that KW amplitudes observed in the mid-Pacific can be used to forecast which system state will dominate the HCS over the next 2–6 months. Such predictions should be integrated in the Peruvian adaptive fishery management.

2/1563: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/towardecosystemsoceanography> : SCORE = 3.2755096
Doc : Toward ecosystems oceanography


3/1564: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemoceanographyforglobalchangeinfisheries> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Ecosystem Oceanography for global change in fisheries
Overexploitation and climate change are increasingly causing unanticipated changes in marine ecosystems, such as higher variability in fish recruitment and shifts in species dominance. An ecosystem-based approach to fisheries attempts to address these effects by integrating populations, food webs and fish habitats at different scales. Ecosystem models represent indispensable tools to achieve this objective. However, a balanced research strategy is needed to avoid overly complex models. Ecosystem oceanography represents such a balanced strategy that relates ecosystem components and their interactions to climate change and exploitation. It aims at developing realistic and robust models at different levels of organisation and addressing specific questions in a global change context while systematically exploring the ever-increasing amount of biological and environmental data.

4/1565: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemapproachtomarineresourceseamrmovingfromfisheriesoceanographytowardsecosystemoceanography> : SCORE = 2.316135
Doc : Ecosystem approach to marine resources (EAMR): moving from ‘fisheries oceanography' towards ‘ecosystem oceanography'


5/1566: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/conjecturesonfutureclimateeffectsonmarineecosystemsdominatedbysmallpelagicfish> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Conjectures on future climate effects on marine ecosystems dominated by small pelagic fish
This book details the effects of climate variability on small pelagic fish and their ecosystems and fisheries. Particularly abundant in coastal upwelling regions off the west coasts of the Americas and Africa, off Japan, and in the NE Atlantic, the stocks of these fish fluctuate greatly over the timescale of decades, with large ecological and economic effects. This book describes the nature and cause of these fluctuations, and their consequences. It outlines results from paleo-oceanographic studies, showing that similar fluctuations have also occurred over the past two millennia. The potential effects of future climate change, both natural and anthropogenic, on stocks and fisheries, are considered. The book concludes by recommending the continued international study and assessment of small pelagic fish in order to best inform management and policy under a changing climate. It is written for research scientists, academics, and policy makers in fisheries, oceanography, and climate change. Considers climate change effects on small pelagic fish from an interdisciplinary perspective, making the topic accessible to readers from marine ecology, ecosystems, fisheries, climate change, and economics.

6/1567: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/climatevariabilityfishandfisheries> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Climate variability, fish and fisheries
Fish population variability and fisheries activities are closely linked to weather and climate dynamics. While weather at sea directly affects fishing, environmental variability determines the distribution, migration, and abundance of fish. Fishery science grew up during the last century by integrating knowledge from oceanography, fish biology, marine ecology and fish population dynamics, largely focused on the great northern hemisphere fisheries. During this period, understanding and explaining interannual fish recruitment variability became a major focus for fisheries oceanographers. Yet, the close link between climate and fisheries is best illustrated by the effect of 'unexpected' events – i.e. non-seasonal, and sometimes catastrophic – on fish exploitation, such as those associated with the El Niño/ Southern Oscillation (ENSO). The observation that fish populations fluctuate at decadal time scales and show patterns of synchrony while being geographically separated drew attention to oceanographic processes driven by low frequency signals, as reflected by indices tracking large scale climate patterns such as the Pacific Decadal Oscillation (PDO) and the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO). This low frequency variability was first observed in catch fluctuations of small pelagic fish (anchovies, sardines), but similar effects soon emerged for larger fish such as salmons, various groundfish species, and some tuna species. Today, the availability of long time series of observations combined with major scientific advances in sampling and modelling the oceans ecosystems allows fisheries science to investigate processes generating variability in abundance, distribution and dynamics of fish species at daily, decadal and even centennial scales. These studies are central to the research programme of GLOBEC (Global Ocean Ecosystems Dynamics). In this review, we present examples of relationships between climate variability and fisheries at these different time-scales for species covering various marine ecosystems ranging from equatorial to sub-arctic regions. We describe some of the known mechanisms linking climate variability and exploited fish populations, as well as some leading hypotheses, and their implications for their management and for the modelling of their dynamics. We conclude with recommendations for collaborative work between climatologists,
oceanographers and fisheries scientists to resolve some of the outstanding problems in the development of sustainable fisheries.

7/1568: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/pelagicmpasthedevilisinthedetails> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Pelagic MPAs: The devil is in the details
1er §: 
Game et al. (2009) [1] argue that “recent advances across conservation, oceanography and fisheries science provide the evidence, tools and information to... confirm [pelagic] MPAs as defensible and feasible instruments for pelagic conservation”. While we agree that pelagic MPAs merit a scientific examination of their potential uses as part of a diversified approach to marine management, reasonable caution must be applied to their implementation and expected benefits. Game et al. (2009) provide an overview of many of the issues, challenges and potential solutions for pelagic MPAs; however, we believe that some challenges are likely to be more difficult and costly to resolve than the authors suggest. Here, we consider two such challenges: defining ‘targeted' MPAs and enforcement.

8/1569: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ecosystemoceanographyfortheecosystemapproachtofisheries> : SCORE = 2.866071
Doc : "Ecosystem Oceanography"  for the Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries


9/1570: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingenvironmentaleffectsonthesizestructuredenergyflowthroughmarineecosystems> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Modeling environmental effects on the size-structured energy flow through marine ecosystems.
This paper presents an original size-structured mathematical model of the energy flow through marine ecosystems, based on established ecological and physiological processes and mass conservation principles. The model is based on a nonlocal partial differential equation which represents the transfer of energy in both time and body weight (size) in marine ecosystems. The processes taken into account include size-based opportunistic trophic interactions, competition for food, allocation of energy between growth and reproduction, somatic and maturity maintenance, predatory and starvation mortality. All the physiological rates are temperature-dependent. The physiological bases of the model are derived from the dynamic energy budget theory. The model outputs the dynamic size-spectrum of marine ecosystems in term of energy content per weight class as well as many other size-dependent diagnostic variables such as growth rate, egg production or predation mortality.

In stable environmental conditions and using a reference set of parameters derived from empirical studies, the model converges toward a stationary linear log–log size-spectrum with a slope equal to −1.06, which is consistent with the values reported in empirical studies. In some cases, the distribution of the largest sizes departs from the stationary linear solution and is slightly curved downward. A sensitivity analysis to the parameters is conducted systematically. It shows that the stationary size-spectrum is not very sensitive to the parameters of the model. Numerical simulations of the effects of temperature and primary production variability on marine ecosystems size-spectra are provided in a companion paper [Maury, O., Shin, Y.-J., Faugeras, B., Ben Ari, T., Marsac, F., 2007. Modeling environmental effects on the size-structured energy flow through marine ecosystems. Part 2: simulations. Progress in Oceanography,



1352) Recherche du mot : Broadbill swordfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/xiphias_gladius)


1353) Recherche du mot : Striped marlin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tetrapturus_audax)


1354) Recherche du mot : Rainbow runner (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/elagatis_bipinnulata)
1/1571: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysisofdataobtainedfromobserverprogrammesconductedinandintheindianoceanonboardfrenchpurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Analysis of data obtained from observer programmes conducted in 2005 and 2006 in the indian ocean on board french purse seiners
This paper is a preliminary analysis of the data obtained under the National Database Plan (PNDB).
Between October 2005 and July 2006, three observers from the Development and Research Institute
(IRD) have been on board four French tuna purse seiners. They had to estimate by-catch and discard
and collect detailed information on the fishing activities and the use of FADs.
Areas prospected during these 134 days were NW Seychelles, SE Seychelles, E. Somalia and
Maldives-Chagos; 194 sets (116 positives and 86 negative) have been observed, with a majority
(84%) on free schools (162 sets, 51% positive) and quite few (16%) on associated schools (32 sets,
81% positives). During the day, the main activities of the boat were searching and fishing,
respectively 31% and 13% of total activity. Main reasons for null sets over free school as well as
FADs was that fish sinks or move too fast.
Discards were practically nulls and concerned mainly yellowfin tuna. About by-catch, it represents
less than 1% of total catch (in weight), mainly triggerfish, rainbow runner and wahoo. Selacians
(except shark whales) represented nearly 12% of the total by-catch (in weight) with mainly silky shark
over FADs and skate over free school. As regards billfishes, they represent 5% of total by-catch (in
weight) with mainly Indo-Pacific Sailfish over free school and black marlin over FADs.

2/1572: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.



1355) Recherche du mot : chenal (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/seachannel)


1356) Recherche du mot : Mobula japanica (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mobula_japanica)


1357) Recherche du mot : Benthosema suborbitale (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/benthosema_suborbitale)


1358) Recherche du mot : Onychoteuthis banksi dans dbStomac  et dans FAO !!!  (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/onychoteuthis_banksi)


1359) Recherche du mot : Ram's horn squid (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/spirula_spirula)


1360) Recherche du mot : requins (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/requins)


1361) Recherche du mot : Stenella attenuata (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/stenella_attenuata)


1362) Recherche du mot : Sandbar shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_plumbeus)


1363) Recherche du mot : Nansenia macrolepis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/nansenia_macrolepis)


1364) Recherche du mot : Atlantic blue marlin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_nigricans)


1365) Recherche du mot : Makaire noir (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/makaira_indica)


1366) Recherche du mot : CTOI (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/groupCTOI)
1/1573: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/presidentducomitescientifiquedelactoidepuisnovembre> : SCORE = 2.0471935
Doc : Président du Comité Scientifique de la CTOI depuis novembre


2/1574: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ctoiwptt> : SCORE = 3.2755096
Doc : CTOI/WPTT/05/23


3/1575: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/sardaradumodeleconceptuelaumodelephysique> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Sardara, du modèle conceptuel au modèle physique
Introduction:
La base de données, nommée "Sardara 1" a pour objectif de réunir et gérer, de la manière la
plus efficace possible, les collections de données thonières internationales que les pays
soumettent au Organisations régionales des pêches (ORP) ad hoc : données de prises
(corrigées ou non pour la composition spécifique), d'efforts et de tailles des captures selon
les strates spatio-temporelles standards pour l'ensemble des flottilles qui les soumettent, et
pour toute la période où elles existent. Ces données constituent la base fondamentale de
toutes les évaluations de stocks de thons et/ou d'un suivi bioéconomique des pêcheries. Si
ces données sont publiques et en théorie disponibles auprès des ORP concernées (ICCAT,
CTOI, IATTC et WPFC), elles sont de facto parfois difficiles d'accès et le plus souvent
délicates à manipuler. La grande hétérogénéité des collections originelles constitue la
difficulté majeure dont le processus de conception cherchera à s'affranchir. La base de
données "Sardara" constitue l'avant dernier maillon du serveur ALIPA.



1367) Recherche du mot : Escolier serpent (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/gempylus_serpens)


1368) Recherche du mot : Trachurus trachurus capensis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/trachurus_trachurus_capensis)


1369) Recherche du mot : Pelagic stingray (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/dasyatis_violacea)


1370) Recherche du mot : Pseudocarcharias kamoharai (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pseudocarcharias_kamoharai)


1371) Recherche du mot : Balistes capriscus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/balistes_capriscus)


1372) Recherche du mot : Sula capensis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/morus_capensis)


1373) Recherche du mot : Barracuda (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sphyraena_barracuda)


1374) Recherche du mot : engin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/hasGear)


1375) Recherche du mot : Thazard franc (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_regalis)


1376) Recherche du mot : observatory (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/observatory)
1/1576: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modellingforecastingandscenariosincomparableupwellingecosystemscaliforniacanaryandhumboldt> : SCORE = 0.30707902
Doc : Modelling, forecasting and scenarios in comparable upwelling ecosystems: California, Canary and Humboldt
The three eastern boundary ecosystems comparable to the Benguela ecosystem (BCE)
display differences and commonalities. The California (CalCE) and Humboldt Current
(HCE) ecosystems are continuous topographically, whereas the Canary Current
ecosystem (CanCE) is interrupted by the Gulf of Cadiz and the Canaries archipelago.
All have similar regimes of equatorward flow over shelf and slope associated with
upwelling and a subsurface poleward flow over the slope, though in the HCE multiple
flows and counter-flows appear offshore. All systems exhibit year round upwelling in
their centre and seasonal upwelling at their extremes as the trade wind systems that
drive them migrate north and south, though the HCE is strongly skewed toward the
equator. All systems vary on scales from the event or synoptic scale of a few days,
through seasonal, to inter-decadal and long term. Productivity of each system follows
the upwelling cycle, though intra-regional variations in nutrient content and forcing
cause significant variability within regions. The CanCE is relatively unproductive
compared to the CalCE and HCE as a result of differences in large scale circulation
between the Pacific and Atlantic. The latter two systems are dominated by El Niño -
Southern Oscillation (ENSO) variability on a scale of 4-7 years. Physical modeling
with the Princeton Ocean Model and the Regional Oceanic Modeling System has
advanced recently to the stage of reproducing realistic mesoscale features and energy
levels with climatic wind forcing. Operational forecasting by these models with
assimilation of sea surface temperature and other data is successfully implemented in
CalCE. On longer time scales, the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory model is able
to hindcast El Niño variability over the long term up to 2 years in advance. Empirical
ecological models in all three systems have attempted prediction of permissible catch
level (fractional Maximum Sustainable Yield), recruitment, catches or onset of
migration with lack of continued success, partly because discontinuous or inadequate
observations hamper model implementation and assessment. Moreover, empirical
models tuned to particular environments fail when fundamental regime shifts occur.
One of the most successful approaches is that of intensive monitoring of catch and
188 P. Fréon
environmental parameters linked to an informal Operational Management Procedure
(OMP) to inform fisheries management off Peru. This OMP contributed to
preservation of anchovy stock during the 1997-8 El Niño but remains to be formalized
or tested under varying conditions. Prediction on time scales of global warming are
uncertain because physical climate models still disagree on whether upwelling will
intensify or weaken. Possible scenarios on decadal scale based on warming or cooling
of waters in the Eastern Boundary Current systems can be proffered, albeit with little
confidence at present. Future approaches for all systems, including the BCE, will in
the long run likely combine coupled atmospheric/ocean models with biological process
models. Judicious application of purely statistical modeling based on inherent time
series properties will assist, though such techniques are unable to cope with regime
shifts.

2/1577: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/behaviorofyellowfinthunnusalbacaresandbigeyetobesustunainanetworkoffishaggregatingdevicesfads> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Behavior of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) and bigeye (T-obesus) tuna in a network of fish aggregating devices (FADs)
The influence of multiple anchored fish aggregating devices (FADs) on the spatial behavior of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) and bigeye tuna (T. obesus) was investigated by equipping all thirteen FADs surrounding the island of Oahu (HI, USA) with automated sonic receivers ("listening stations") and intra-peritoneally implanting individually coded acoustic transmitters in 45 yellowfin and 12 bigeye tuna. Thus, the FAD network became a multi-element passive observatory of the residence and movement characteristics of tuna within the array. Yellowfin tuna were detected within the FAD array for up to 150 days, while bigeye tuna were only observed up to a maximum of 10 days after tagging. Only eight yellowfin tuna (out of 45) and one bigeye tuna (out of 12) visited FADs other than their FAD of release. Those nine fish tended to visit nearest neighboring FADs and, in general, spent more time at their FAD of release than at the others. Fish visiting the same FAD several times or visiting other FADs tended to stay longer in the FAD network. A majority of tagged fish exhibited some synchronicity when departing the FADs but not all tagged fish departed a FAD at the same time: small groups of tagged fish left together while others remained. We hypothesize that tuna (at an individual or collective level) consider local conditions around any given FAD to be representative of the environment on a larger scale (e.g., the entire island) and when those conditions become unfavorable the tuna move to a completely different area. Thus, while the anchored FADs surrounding the island of Oahu might concentrate fish and make them more vulnerable to fishing, at a meso-scale they might not entrain fish longer than if there were no (or very few) FADs in the area. At the existing FAD density, the 'Cyisland effect' is more likely to be responsible for the general presence of fish around the island than the FADs. We recommend further investigation of this hypothesis.



1377) Recherche du mot : Ethology (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ethology)


1378) Recherche du mot : goulotte (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/goulotte)


1379) Recherche du mot : cargo (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/cargo)


1380) Recherche du mot : Zones administratives (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/administrative_area)


1381) Recherche du mot : Scomberomorus brasiliensis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_brasiliensis)


1382) Recherche du mot : Isurus spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/isurus_spp)


1383) Recherche du mot : triggerfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/balistes_capriscus)
1/1578: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysisofdataobtainedfromobserverprogrammesconductedinandintheindianoceanonboardfrenchpurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Analysis of data obtained from observer programmes conducted in 2005 and 2006 in the indian ocean on board french purse seiners
This paper is a preliminary analysis of the data obtained under the National Database Plan (PNDB).
Between October 2005 and July 2006, three observers from the Development and Research Institute
(IRD) have been on board four French tuna purse seiners. They had to estimate by-catch and discard
and collect detailed information on the fishing activities and the use of FADs.
Areas prospected during these 134 days were NW Seychelles, SE Seychelles, E. Somalia and
Maldives-Chagos; 194 sets (116 positives and 86 negative) have been observed, with a majority
(84%) on free schools (162 sets, 51% positive) and quite few (16%) on associated schools (32 sets,
81% positives). During the day, the main activities of the boat were searching and fishing,
respectively 31% and 13% of total activity. Main reasons for null sets over free school as well as
FADs was that fish sinks or move too fast.
Discards were practically nulls and concerned mainly yellowfin tuna. About by-catch, it represents
less than 1% of total catch (in weight), mainly triggerfish, rainbow runner and wahoo. Selacians
(except shark whales) represented nearly 12% of the total by-catch (in weight) with mainly silky shark
over FADs and skate over free school. As regards billfishes, they represent 5% of total by-catch (in
weight) with mainly Indo-Pacific Sailfish over free school and black marlin over FADs.

2/1579: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitelinkedacousticreceiverstoobservebehavioroffishesinremoteareas> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Satellite-linked acoustic receivers to observe behavior of fishes in remote areas
Automated acoustic receivers are now widely used by biologists to study the behavior of fish. However, currently available acoustic receivers require physical recovery of the units to download stored data. Such operation is often difficult in remote study areas like in the open ocean. We present a new satellite-linked acoustic receiver (Vemco VR3-Argos) that allows downloading data through a satellite uplink (Argos). The VR3-Argos can last up to one year, sending GPS positions and tag data at regular time intervals. We illustrate the advantages of this new technology with tagging data from 121 fish of seven species (yellowfin tuna, bigeye tuna, skipjack tuna, wahoo, dolphinfish, silky shark and oceanic triggerfish) caught and released around drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean, far from any land. In opposition with the classic acoustic receivers (Vemco VR2), the use of VR3-Argos allowed to collect data for several weeks after leaving the drifting FADs. Maximum residence times of 3 days for bigeye tuna, 7 days for skipjack, 8 days for wahoo, 10 days for silky shark and 15 days for yellowfin tuna, dolphinfish and oceanic triggerfish could be recorded. VR2 and VR3-Argos are equivalent in terms of quality of residence times data, however depth data obtained through satellites are aggregated in 8 classes for compression purposes, which leads to a loss of precision available with raw data. Future directions of this technology are discussed.

3/1580: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingfishcommunitiesassociatedwithdriftingfishaggregatingdevicesfadsinthewesternindianoceanusingunderwatervisualsurveys> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Characterizing fish communities associated with drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean using underwater visual surveys
We adapted a visual census method, mainly used in demersal and reef fish studies, to characterize fish communities associated to drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean. Drifting FAD associated fishes from both equatorial (Seychelles) and tropical waters (Reunion Island) were examined by divers. A total of 32 species (belonging to 16 families) were observed associated with drifting FADs in equatorial waters, and 24 species (14 families) were found around FADs in tropical waters. Twenty species were found in both regions. The highest number of species observed at a single FAD was 18 (12 ± 2, mean ± SD) in equatorial and 13 (10 ± 3) in tropical waters, not counting circumnatant species loosely associated with the FAD. Some species like Kyphosus vaigiensis, Canthidermis maculata, Elagatis bipinnulata, Acanthocybium solandri and Coryphaena hippurus were observed on all or most of the surveys. In this study, the contribution in biomass of the 18 common species associated with drifting FADs (but excluding circumnatant species), represents more than 98% of the biomass. The overall biomass values of closely associated species remains well below tuna biomass estimates for circumnatant tuna schools at FADs, estimated as high as 200 tons. The species that most significantly contribute to the by-catch in tuna purse-seines logically match those that showing the highest biomass values in our surveys (Carcharhinus spp., Elagatis bipinnulata, Coryphaena hippurus, Canthidermis maculata, and Acanthocybium solandri). One of the most abundant and ubiquitous species in our study was the spotted oceanic triggerfish Canthidermis maculata that sometimes formed massive schools of many thousands individuals around the drifting FADs. Future research is needed to explore the role of such non tuna species in the attraction and aggregation processes of tuna around drifting FADs.



1384) Recherche du mot : Somali ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/somali_ecosystem)


1385) Recherche du mot : Dauphin tacheté pantropical (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/stenella_attenuata)


1386) Recherche du mot : Blacktip reef shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_melanopterus)


1387) Recherche du mot : Electrona risso (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/electrona_risso)


1388) Recherche du mot : dauphin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/dolphin)


1389) Recherche du mot : Analyse spatiale (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/spatial_analysis)


1390) Recherche du mot : Ornate jobfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pristipomoides_zonatus)


1391) Recherche du mot : Nealotus tripes (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/nealotus_tripes)


1392) Recherche du mot : mammifère marin (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/marine_mammal)


1393) Recherche du mot : Cachalot nain (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/kogia_sima)


1394) Recherche du mot : Omosudis lowii (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/omosudis_lowei)


1395) Recherche du mot : total autorisé de capture (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/relatedTAC)


1396) Recherche du mot : Kyphosus cinerascens (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/kyphosus_cinerascens)


1397) Recherche du mot : contenu stomacal (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/stomac_content)


1398) Recherche du mot : Comet grouper (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/epinephelus_morrhua)


1399) Recherche du mot : Rexea prometheoides (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/rexea_prometheoides)


1400) Recherche du mot : estuary ecosystem (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/estuary_ecosystem)


1401) Recherche du mot : Stock assessment (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/stock_assessment)
1/1581: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/movementsoftropicaltunasfromthetunaassociatedbaitboatfisheryofdakarandfrombetypandhistoricaltaggingoperationsintheatlanticocean> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : Movements of tropical tunas from the tuna-associated baitboat fishery of Dakar and from BETYP and historical tagging operations in the Atlantic Ocean
Tagging operations were conducted in the northern part of the Dakar baitboat fishing area
(13°N-21°N/15°W-25°W) from 1994 to 2000 (MAC program) and in the eastern Atlantic Ocean
by the BETYP program from 1999 to 2003. BETYP tagging took place in the Gulf of Guinea, in
Mauritania-Senegal (in collaboration with MAC), in the Canary, Madeira and Azores islands.
Movements of yellowfin, skipjack and bigeye from Dakar baitboats are presented together with
tuna movements obtained from BETYP recoveries. These data are compared with movements
from historical tagging operations conducted from 1955 to 1998 in the entire Atlantic Ocean.
More emphasis is put on bigeye, as the main objective of BETYP is to obtain a better
understanding of bigeye stock structure and other parameters relevant to stock assessment.

2/1582: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/workshoponmappingandgeostatisticalmethodsforfisheriesstockassessment> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Workshop on Mapping and Geostatistical Methods for Fisheries Stock Assessment
The NAFO Scientific Council Special Session of September 2003 was the Workshop on Mapping and Geostatistical Methods for Fisheries Stock Assessment. The objective of the workshop was to provide participants with the basic understanding of geostatistical conceptes and methods, and provide tools to apply this knowledge to fisheries stock assessments. The instructors introduced freeware mapping and geostatistical software. Two sets of data were used for the lessons and demonstrations: the Canadian spring bottom trawl survey data from 1996 to 2002, and information from the yellowtail flounder commercial fishery on the Grand Bank from 1996 to 2002. The visualization, analysis and modeling of spatial data using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) were presented (e.g. Ocean Data View (ODV freeware), SPAN (Spatial Analysis System) and ACON (A CONtouring package). Surface (map) generating techniques were demonstrated using the various software packges. Geostatistical concepts and methods related to kriging, and methods for analyses using basics of the "R" software package were described.

3/1583: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/interamericantropicaltunacommissionthmeeting> : SCORE = 1.6377548
Doc : Inter-American tropical Tuna Commission, 8th meeting
1- Introduction:

Statistical models that are increasingly used nowadays by various tuna RFO and by the IATTC, are
clearly very interesting, but it appears, when reading the recent IATTC results, that the main results
obtained by these complex models are often very difficult to follow.
This note will discuss this present lack of transparency in the present stock
assessment reports, and it will make practical recommendations allowing to better understand
the basic input data as well as the main results obtained from these models.

4/1584: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/onthenorthatlanticalbacorestockandonitspotentialsubpopulations> : SCORE = 1.7371012
Doc : On the North Atlantic albacore stock and on its potential sub populations
This paper discusses the potential biological heterogeneity of the North Atlantic albacore stock. Based on the historical work by Aloncle and Delaporte in 1974, the paper keeps the hypothesis that at least 3 sub populations, well stratified & following an east west gradient of longitude, could have been exploited by the albacore surface fisheries. This heterogeneity of the stock has not been taken into account in the present stock assessment by SCRS, but it could play a major role in the fishery trend, as the present shrinking of the historical fishing zones could have produced a decline of the present stock MSY. Scientific investigations are actively recommended to solve this major uncertainty in the stock structure of the Northern Atlantic albacore stock and to better evaluate its potential impact on the stock assessment results.

5/1585: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofyearsofiattcbigeyestockassessmentsintheeasternpacificocean> : SCORE = 2.026618
Doc : An overview of 10 years of IATTC bigeye stock assessments in the Eastern Pacific Ocean
This working paper examines and discusses the bigeye stock assessment results obtained by the IATTC since 2000. It concludes that there was a large variability, uncertainties and potential bias in these past results, while these basic problems were seldom or never discussed in the yearly assessment reports. The paper tries to identify the potential causes that could explain these often wide uncertainties. A combination of statistical, biological and modelling uncertainties have been identified and they are discussed in the paper. In its conclusions, the paper makes a series of research recommendations that would improve the future quality of the bigeye stock assessment in the EPO.

6/1586: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteonthestockstructureofpacificbigeyetunatobeusedinstockassessments> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Note on the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna to be used in stock assessments
This paper reviews and discusses the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna in relation with the prospects of stock assessment analysis of this population. The analysis of fishery data, mainly the spatio temporal bigeye catches by gear and by sizes, indicates that the present 150°W frontier based on historical and administrative results does not appear to be a convenient biological frontier. Our conclusion is that the present lack of significant tag recoveries across the 150°W frontier should not be considered as being significant, due to the limited numbers of bigeye presently tagged and to the great distances between present tagging locations. North South movements of adult bigeye are also a potential source of mixing between eastern and western bigeye populations. It is hypothetized that there could be an increased net flow of juvenile bigeye towards the WCPO due to the increased number of FADs in the western EPO. Our conclusion is that all the bigeye stock assessments by WCPFC and the IATTC should preferably be conducted in a unified best model and at a Pacific wide scale. A large scale tagging programme covering the distribution area of the entire bigeye population and fully coordinated between WCPFC and IATTC would be necessary to obtain realistic and age specific movement patterns at a Pacific wide level. Management actions of the bigeye stocks should also be fully coordinated between the Western and Eastern stocks, because of the probably weak biological frontier and also because of the bigeye long life span. The long term management benefits or failures will probably be shared by WCPFC and IATTC.

7/1587: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/aworkingproposalforayellowfingrowthcurvetobeusedduringtheyellowfinstockassessment> : SCORE = 2.316135
Doc : A working proposal for a Yellowfin growth curve to be used during the 2008 yellowfin stock assessment
This paper explains why the modelled growth curve proposed for YFT and using the Laslett et al model is heavily biased and that it should not be used to do the stock assessment analysis during the Bangkok meeting. An alternate ad hoc observed growth curve and a subsequent method allowing to slice the Catch at age table into a catch at age is proposed. The paper also recommends to model the YFT growth using a 3 stanza model.

8/1588: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/onthemajorinteresttodoallyellowfinstockassessmentanalysisintheeasternpacificsinceorbefore> : SCORE = 2.7465982
Doc : On the major interest to do all yellowfin stock assessment analysis in the Eastern Pacific since 1950, or before
This paper examine the shifting base line syndrome faced by the yellowfin stock assessment done by the IATTC staff, as when its historical stock assessment were starting in 1934, all the present stock assessment start only in 1975. The paper concludes that future yellowfin stock assessment should be conducted starting since the beginning of the yellowfin fisheries, for instance in 1920. Such extended analysis should be based on an the results of ad hoc data mining program allowing to recover and to incorporate in the IATTC data base all these historical data. The assessment model should also be modified in order to fully use all these new data and the major changes in stock and fisheries (for instance in catchabilities, size selectivities and fishing zones). It is concluded that such extended analysis covering the early fishery should widely improve the modelling of present stock status and the validity of the estimated MSY.

9/1589: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/scrstowardsclearandfirmiccatreportsonatlanticbluefintunastocksanopenlettertothebluefingroupandtothescrs> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : SCRS 2006: Towards clear and firm ICCAT reports on Atlantic bluefin tuna stocks? An open letter to the bluefin group and to the SCRS
This paper is based on the fact that the recent SCRS reports on bluefin tuna are not very clear
to show the gravity of the ICCAT problems in its statistics, research and assessment for this
species. The Atlantic bluefin population is now probably facing in the short or medium terms a
high risk of potentially irreversible over-fishing. However this severe risk is not clearly visible
in the recent SCRS analysis because of the difficulties to run a realistic stock assessment on
these stocks when most of the basic data are missing. This paper makes a recommendation that
SCRS should write its bluefin report using a non standard specific format using well selected
indicators and not its traditional VPA. This SCRS report should also show the serious
conservation risks presently faced by bluefin in the Atlantic. This paper also reaches conclusion
that a precautionary approach should be developed by SCRS in order to make firm
management recommendations that are need to conserve bluefin tuna.

10/1590: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/ayearclasscurveanalysistoestimatemortalityofatlanticbluefintunacaughtbythenorwegianfisheryfromto> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : A year-class curve analysis to estimate mortality of Atlantic bluefin tuna caught by the Norwegian fishery from 1956 to 1979
At the ICCAT symposium on bluefin tuna that held in Santander in April 2008, Tangen et al.(2009) presented a first quantification of the fishing effort deployed by the Norwegian fishery targeting bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea. Using a year-class curve analysis on the Norwegian CPUE, this document presents the first estimates of mortality rates of Atlantic bluefin tuna that migrated north from the mid-1950s to the late 1970s. The results indicate that bluefin tuna would have experienced a total mortality rate (Z) of 0.2 to 0.4 yr-1 (i.e. F at around 0.3 yr-1) during the late 1950s, 0.2 yr-1 during the 1960s and 0.1 yr-1 afterwards (assuming M=0.1 yr-1). These results appear to be rather robust and consistent with the VPA estimates from the 1970s and early 1980s, albeit slightly higher. The fishing mortality rates experienced by bluefin tuna in the North Sea and Norwegian Sea during the period 1956-1979 were thus significant (so that local overfishing may have occurred, especially during the 1950s), but lower than F estimated by year-class curve analysis in recent years (i.e. 1992-2004). This comparison between two distant periods of time during which BFT was significantly (highly) exploited tend to confirm, with new pieces of information, the pessimistic conclusions of the 2006 stock assessment.

11/1591: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acomparisonofbigeyethunnusobesusstocksandfisheriesintheatlanticindianandpacificoceans> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : A comparison of bigeye (Thunnus obesus) stocks and fisheries in the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans
This paper presents a comparison of fisheries exploiting bigeye tuna. First, a comparison of the
bigeye catch trends by ocean is done. It shows in all areas a fast and quite synchronous
increase of bigeye catches since the early 1980s, followed by a stable or slowly declining catch
trend. Worldwide catches are due to a combination of low value bigeye taken by purse seiners
(mainly small sizes under FADs and of valuable large bigeye targeted by longliners for the
sashimi market. Sizes taken by the various gears in the three oceans are compared. Historical
changes of fishing zones are analysed. The relationship between catches of longliners and sea
surface temperatures is reviewed in each ocean. The main biological characteristics of bigeye
tuna such as growth, sex ratio-at-size and natural mortality, estimated in the various oceans
are compared. Bigeye stock status and the recent changes in the stock assessment diagnosis
done by the different tuna agencies, following the recent increases of catches, are examined
and discussed. Present limitations and uncertainties on the real stock status of bigeye
worldwide are discussed. It is concluded that despite more active research developed
worldwide during recent years on bigeye tunas, the assessment and prospects for management
of these heavily exploited stocks remain widely uncertain and an increasing source of concern.

12/1592: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evaluationoftheperformanceandrobustnessofvpabasedstockassessmentandmsybasedmanagementstrategytoprocesserrortheatlanticbluefintunacasestudy> : SCORE = 1.4183372
Doc : Evaluation of the performance and robustness of VPA-based stock assessment and MSY-based management strategy to process error : The Atlantic bluefin tuna case study
An integrative simulation framework was built to evaluate the consequences of variability attributable to changes in carrying capacity or the stock's migration pattern of Atlantic bluefin tuna on the ICCAT stock assessment and management procedures. We also evaluated the performances of stock assessment methods with respect to their ability to provide good estimates of MSY, FMSY and BMSY and tested the robustness of the current ICCAT management strategy to uncertainty about the true dynamics and historical exploitation levels. The results clearly indicate that the VPA performances were seriously impaired if the long-term variations in catches are due to changes in migration/availability. There is further considerable confounding between the underlying dynamics and increasing effort that makes it difficult to draw any inference about the actual dynamics based on commercial catch data. Reference points based on F (e.g., F0.1) were less biased and more precise than those based on yield and/or SSB and were also more robust to uncertainty about the true dynamics than absolute values of F and SSB. However, F0.1 cannot indicate past and current levels of exploitation relative to FMSY when there is uncertainty about the dynamics. Therefore, while reference points such as F0.1 may be good proxies for FMSY, the MSY concept may be difficult to make operational. A size limit strategy generates greater yields than the more sophisticated F0.1, but lower SSB. However, the performances of both strategies were strongly dependent on the period over which they are implemented relative to the intrinsic cycle of the population. We finally stressed that the performances and robustness of management strategies also depend on concrete objectives, such as fleet composition, gear selectivity and economic constraints.

13/1593: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fasstafullyagesizeandspacetimestructuredstatisticalmodelfortheassessmentoftunapopulations> : SCORE = 1.7729216
Doc : FASST: a fully age-size and space-time structured statistical model for the assessment of tuna populations
This paper describes the model FASST. FASST is a fully structured age, size, space and time
stock assessment model. It is expressed as a deterministic system of partial differential
equations continuous in age, size and time. Space is represented using large discrete zones
interconnected by exchange rates. All the parameterizations used to represent recruitment,
growth, mortality and movements are chosen to be size-dependent and age independent.
Consequently, for simplicity purposes, the age dimension can be simplified. The model is
integrated numerically to simulate the stock dynamics. A complex process -and observationerror
framework is used to estimate the model parameters, and hence the past stock status, in
a Bayesian context. The model uses simultaneously most fishery data currently available for
tuna stock assessment such as catch by fleet in number and weight, length-frequency samples,
otolith analysis, tag-recapture data. It provides a new way to integrate that information into a
consistent stock assessment framework.

14/1594: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.

15/1595: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityofthegrowthparametersoftheskipjacktunakatsuwonuspelamisamongareasintheeasternatlanticanalysisfromtaggingdatawithinametaanalysisapproach> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Variability of the growth parameters of the skipjack tuna (/Katsuwonus pelamis/) among areas in the eastern Atlantic: Analysis from tagging data within a meta-analysis approach
In order to assess the latitudinal variability in growth of the eastern Atlantic skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), conventional tagging data collected by the International Commission of the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) since the 1960s are reanalyzed using a modified version of the von Bertalanffy-Fabens growth model. An analysis of the latitudinal patterns of recaptures showed that the lowest mixing rate between northern and southern regions was evidenced at 10◦ N Latitude. Since it is theoretically admitted that growth parameters L∞ and K are negatively correlated, we substituted L∞ into the growth equation model by a simple bioenergetic function of K fitted from existing studies on skipjack growth parameters. The likelihood for the meta-analysis of growth is combined with the likelihoods from the two regional tagging data with the aim of estimating simultaneously K in both areas and to transfer adequately uncertainties associated with the different data sets. From this study, it was showed that fish inhabiting waters south of 10◦ N latitude can be expected to grow generally larger but at slower rate than in the North (L∞ = 112.34 cm vs. 89.38 cm, and K = 0.14 vs. 0.38, respectively). Our results are consistent with the range of growth estimates obtained in the Atlantic Ocean and in different parts of the World's oceans. In contrast, the estimates of L∞ and K done in the Senegalese region in the 1980s within the framework of the Skipjack Year Program, and traditionally applied by ICCAT, are not supported by the present study. The findings concerning the phenotypic plasticity exhibited by growth of skipjack among latitudinal regions suggest potential differences in fish population productivity and consequently imply that non-conventional stock assessment methods such as catch-at size/growth transition matrix per region could be used to assess the responses of skipjack to exploitation.

16/1596: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/thedevelopmentofanoperationalmodelandsimulationprocedurefortestinguncertaintiesintheatlanticbigeyethunnusobesusstockassessment> : SCORE = 1.2283161
Doc : The development of an operational model and simulation procedure for testing uncertainties in the Atlantic Bigeye (Thunnus obesus) stock assessment
Atlantic bigeye is a highly migratory species widely distributed through the whole Atlantic.
Recent assessments conducted by the ICCAT SCRS are highly uncertain due to the large
uncertainties in biological parameters, such as M, as well as in fishery statistics (e.g., IUU
fleets, juvenile catch) or abundance indexes. Similar uncertainties can be found in the Indian or
Pacific stocks. The development of an operational model has been recommended by different
regional fishery organizations as a good approach to investigate the sensitivity of the
assessment results to the uncertainties in the different inputs. This document presents an
operational model for the Atlantic bigeye as part of a simulation framework that will allow the
performance of management strategies based on current and improved biological knowledge
and management procedures to be evaluated.

17/1597: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/anoverviewofyellowfinthunnusalbacarestunastocksfisheriesandstockstatusworldwide> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : An overview of yellowfin (Thunnus albacares) tuna stocks, fisheries and stock status worldwide
This paper makes a comparison of yellowfin
stocks worldwide, taking into account the biology of the
species as estimated in each ocean and the changes and
trends in the yellowfin fisheries observed in each ocean. This
paper presents and discusses a wide range of data and
figures comparing yellowfin stocks and fisheries in the four
« oceans », namely the Atlantic, Indian, Eastern and Western
Pacific. It shows an overview of the changes observed in each
ocean for the main yellowfin fisheries, longliners and purse
seiners: sizes of area fished, CPUE, changes in size
distribution and average weights, etc. The major biological
parameters estimated in each ocean by scientists, such as
natural mortality at age, spawning, sex ratio and growth are
presented and discussed. The methods used to assess
yellowfin stocks and the methodological uncertainties in the
yellowfin stock assessment are compared and discussed. The
conclusion is that it remains difficult to fully understand if the
increased catches of yellowfin observed world wide in most
oceans should be explained (1) by the effects of increasing
fishing zones, (2) by increased fishing effort and/or increased
fishing efficiency (3) and/or by increased biological productivity
of oceans or by a combination of these parameters. The
serious uncertainty in the understanding of the real
relationship between the longline and purse seine fisheries are
also discussed.

18/1598: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/effectsofthegeardeploymentstrategyandcurrentshearonpelagiclonglineshoaling> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : Effects of the gear deployment strategy and current shear on pelagic longline shoaling
Historical longline catch per unit effort (CPUE) constitutes the major time series used in tuna stock assessment to followthe trend in abundance since the beginning of the large-scale tuna fisheries. The efficiency and species composition of a longline fishing operations essentially depends on the overlap in the vertical and spatial distribution between hooks and species habitat. Longline catchability depends on the vertical distribution of hooks and the aim of our paper was to analyse principal factors affecting the deviation of observed longline hook depths from predicted values. Since observed hook depth is usually shallower than predicted, this deviation is called longline shoaling.We evaluate the accuracy of hook depth distribution estimated from a theoretical catenary model commonly used in longline CPUE standardizations. Temperature-depth recorders (TDRs) were deployed on baskets of a monitored longline. Mainline shapes and maximum fishing depths were similar to gear configurations commonly used to target both yellowfin and bigeye tuna by commercial longliners in the central part of the South Pacific Ocean. Our working hypothesis assumes that the maximum fishing depth reached by the mainline depends on the gear configuration (sag ratio, mainline length per basket), the fishing tactics (bearing of the setting) and environmental variables characterizing water mass dynamics (wind stress, current velocity and shear). Based on generalized additive models (GAMs) simple transformations are proposed to account for the non-linearity between the shoaling and explanatory variables. Then, generalized linear models (GLMs) were fit to model the effects of explanatory variables on the longline shoaling. Results indicated that the shoaling (absolute aswell as relative) was significantly influenced by (1) the shape of the mainline (i.e., the tangential angle), which is the strongest predictor, and (2) the current shear and the direction of setting. Geometric forcing (i.e. transverse versus in-line) between the environment and the longline set is shown for the first time from in situ experimental fishing data. Results suggest that a catenary model that does not take these factors into consideration provides a biased estimate of the vertical distribution of hooks and must be used with caution in CPUEs standardization methods. Since catchability varies in time and space we discuss how suitable data could be routinely collected onboard commercial fishing vessels in order to estimate longline catchability for stock assessments.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved..

19/1599: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/interpretingcatchperuniteffortdatatoassesthestatusofindividualstocksandcommunities> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Interpreting catch per unit effort data to asses the status of individual stocks and communities
Despite being one of the most common pieces of information used in assessing the status of
fish stocks, relative abundance indices based on catch per unit effort (cpue) data are notoriously
problematic. Raw cpue is seldom proportional to abundance over a whole exploitation
history and an entire geographic range, because numerous factors affect catch rates.
One of the most commonly applied fisheries analyses is standardization of cpue data to remove
the effect of factors that bias cpue as an index of abundance. Even if cpue is standardized
appropriately, the resulting index of relative abundance, in isolation, provides limited
information for management advice or about the effect of fishing. In addition, cpue data
generally cannot provide information needed to assess and manage communities or ecosystems.
We discuss some of the problems associated with the use of cpue data and some
methods to assess and provide management advice about fish populations that can help
overcome these problems, including integrated stock assessment models, management strategy
evaluation, and adaptive management. We also discuss the inappropriateness of using
cpue data to evaluate the status of communities. We use tuna stocks in the Pacific Ocean as
examples.



1402) Recherche du mot : Ville (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/city)


1403) Recherche du mot : Décrire ici un cas d'étude qui illustre la problématique d'une pêcherie à la Seine en précisant la ou les ressources, la localisation , la période... (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/fisheryWithSeineExampleCaseStudy)


1404) Recherche du mot : City (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/city)
1/1600: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trophicsignatureofcoralreeffishassemblagestowardsapotentialindicatorofecosystemdisturbance> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Trophic signature of coral reef fish assemblages: towards a potential indicator of ecosystem disturbance
Face to the increasing anthropogenic disturbances that affect coral reef ecosystems, it becomes urgent to define appropriate ecological indicators for monitoring purposes. One useful approach is to search for a simplified description of the structure of biological communities that are highly diverse and complex on coral reefs. To this end, we propose to represent the trophic structure of coral reef fish assemblages by using fractional trophic levels assigned to each fish species. Fish abundance trophic spectra (i.e., the distributions of fish abundance per trophic level) were established for the fringing reefs of two bays located in the city of Noumea (New Caledonia). The comparison of these trophic spectra revealed a similar trophic structure in the two bays, in spite of contrasted levels of fish abundance due to habitat damages. The embayment degree was characterized by changes in the fish trophic structure, reflecting a decreasing influence of urban and industrial wastes discharged in the bottom of the bays. This case of study shows the interest of using fractional trophic levels for the description of highly diverse biological communities. The trophic level-based approach offers new prospects in the search for ecological indicators, by characterizing the structure of biological communities by trophic signatures which testify to the disturbance level affecting their environment.



1405) Recherche du mot : MAJUNGA (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_MDG_MJN)


1406) Recherche du mot : Monacanthidae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/monacanthidae)


1407) Recherche du mot : Scomberomorus lineolatus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_lineolatus)


1408) Recherche du mot : caret (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/eretmochelys_imbricata)


1409) Recherche du mot : Cost vessel type (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/costVesselType)


1410) Recherche du mot : Blue shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/prionace_glauca)


1411) Recherche du mot : Oceanographie physique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/physical_oceanography)


1412) Recherche du mot : Exploitation tool (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/exploitation_tool)


1413) Recherche du mot : Identifiant FAO pour la famille d'un taxon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/faoFamily)


1414) Recherche du mot : SST (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sst)
1/1601: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/comparisonoflightandsstbasedgeolocationwithsatellitetelemetryinfreerangingalbatrosses> : SCORE = 1.0832729
Doc : Comparison of light- and SST-based geolocation with satellite telemetry in free-ranging albatrosses
Light-based archival tags are increasingly being used on free-ranging marine vertebrates to study their movements using geolocation estimates. These methods use algorithms that incorporate threshold light techniques to determine longitude and latitude. More recently, researchers have begun using sea surface temperature (SST) to determine latitude in temperate regions. The accuracy and application of these algorithms have not been validated on free-ranging birds. Errors in both geolocation methods were quantified by double-tagging Laysan (Phoebastria immutabilis Rothschild) and black-footed (P. nigripes Audubon) albatrosses with both leg-mounted archival tags that measured SST and ambient light, and satellite transmitters. Laysan albatrosses were captured and released from breeding colonies on Tern Island, northwestern Hawaiian Islands (23°52′N, 166°17′W) and Guadalupe Island, Mexico (28°31′N, 118°10′W) and black-footed albatrosses from Tern Island. Studies were carried out between December 2002 and March 2003. For all birds combined, the mean ± SD great circle (GC) distance between light-based locations and satellite-derived locations was 400±298 km (n=131). Errors in geolocation positions were reduced to 202±171 km (n=154) when light-based longitude and SST-based latitude (i.e. SST/light) were used to establish locations. The SST/light method produced comparable results for two Laysan albatross populations that traveled within distinctly different oceanic regions (open ocean vs more coastal) whereas light-based methods produced greater errors in the coastal population. Archival tags deployed on black-footed albatrosses returned a significantly higher proportion of lower-quality locations, which was attributed to interference of the light sensor on the tag. Overall, the results demonstrate that combining measures of light-based longitude and SST-based latitude significantly reduces the error in location estimates for albatrosses and can provide valid latitude estimates during the equinoxes, when light-based latitude measurements are indeterminate.

2/1602: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trendsinprimaryproductionseasurfacetemperatureandwindinupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Trends in primary production, sea surface temperature and wind in upwelling systems (1998-2007)
We take advantage of the longest high quality single-sensor global data set of ocean color available today to explore recent trends in the primary productivity of the main eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUEs): California, Canary, Humboldt and Benguela. The chlorophyll-a concentration is used as a proxy for primary production. SST data from AVHRR and wind speed data from QuikSCAT are used in conjunction with this data set to analyse forcing mechanisms explaining the chlorophyll biomass.
Whereas the worldwide primary-production biomass shows on average decreasing trends, as already observed in the stratified part of the worldwide ocean, the productivity of most EBUEs increases during the study period. These contrasting trends are both significant, at least for the mid latitude range of 50°S-50°N, where the data coverage is sufficient for accurate estimation.
Probably due to the large scale atmospheric forcing, trends in sea surface temperature (SST) show non-significant relationships with the trends in biomass within upwelling systems, suggesting that SST anomalies cannot be used as an indicator of change in upwelling intensity in a continuous warming context. On the other hand, upwelling favourable equatorward winds show a significant correlation with the observed trends in biomass, suggesting that the trends in the trade winds are probably linked to an increase in the intensity of the Hadley cell circulation observed during the last several decades.

3/1603: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/patternsofvariabilityofseasurfacechlorophyllinthemozambiquechannelaquantitativeapproach> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Patterns of variability of sea surface chlorophyll in the Mozambique Channel:A quantitative approach
We analyse the coupling between sea surface chlorophyll concentration (CC) and the physical environment in the Mozambique Channel (MZC) using statistical models. Seasonal and interannual patterns are studied along with the role of mesoscale dynamics on enhancement and concentration processes for phytoplankton. We use SeaWifs data for CC and two other remotely sensed data sets, TMMI for sea surface temperature (SST) and merged altimetry products for sea level anomaly and geostrophic current. Empirical Orthogonal Functions (EOF) on SSC and SST show strong seasonality and partition the MZC into three distinct sub-areas. The chlorophyll variability is mostly driven by seasonality, but more in the North (10°S–16°S) and South (24°S–30°S), and explains respectively 64% and 82% of the CC variance. In the Central part (16°S–24°S), the seasonal signal has less influence (60% variance). There, complex EOFs on Sea Level Anomaly (SLA) highlight the role of mesoscale activity (i.e. eddies and filament structures) in the spatial distribution of chlorophyll. Five mesoscale descriptors (shear, stretch, vorticity, deformation and eddy kinetic energy) are derived from the altimetry data to quantify the eddies-related physical patterns in the central region of the MZC. We use generalized Additive Models to explain the effect of those features on phytoplankton enhancement. The best model fit (r2=0.73) includes shear, stretch, vorticity and the latitude-longitude interaction as eddies are well structured in space. Cyclonic eddies associated with negative vorticity are conductive to phytoplankton enhancement by the effect of upwelling in the core notably during the spin-up phase. The interaction between eddies generate strong frontal mixing favourable to the production and aggregation of organic matter. The mesoscale activity is also affected by interannual variability with consequences on CC. We highlight a substantial reduction of the SLA pattern in 2000–2001 when the SOI positive phase is peaking (Nina-type pattern). The strong relationship between mesoscale eddies and SOI suggests that primary productivity in the MZC is also under the influence of distant forcing at a basin scale.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

4/1604: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/characterizingandcomparingthespawninghabitatsofanchovyengraulisencrasicolusandsardinesardinopssagaxinthesouthernbenguelaupwellingecosystem> : SCORE = 0.62052256
Doc : Characterizing and comparing the spawning habitats of anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus) and sardine (Sardinops sagax) in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem
The spawning habitats of anchovy Engraulis encrasicolus and sardine Sardinops sagax in the southern Benguela upwelling ecosystem were characterised by comparing their egg abundances with environmental variables measured concomitantly during two different survey programmes: the South African Sardine and Anchovy Recruitment Programme (SARP), which comprised monthly surveys conducted during the austral summers of 1993/94 and 1994/95; and annual pelagic spawner biomass surveys conducted in early summer (November/December) from 1984 to 1999. Eggs were collected using a CalVET net. Physical variables measured included sea surface temperature (SST), surface salinity, water depth, mixed-layer depth, and current and wind speeds; biological variables measured included phytoplankton biomass, and zooplankton biomass and production. Spawning habitat was identified by construction of quotient curves derived from egg abundance data and individual environmental variables, and relationships between these variables were determined using multivariate co-inertia analysis. SARP data showed that anchovy spawning was associated with cool water and moderate wind and current speeds, whereas sardine spawning was related to warmer water and more turbulent and unstable conditions (i.e. high wind speeds and strong currents) than for anchovy. SARP data also showed significant differences in selection of spawning habitat of the two species for all environmental variables. The relationship between anchovy egg abundance and salinity was strongly positive, but strongly negative with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. Sardine egg abundance was strongly positively related to current speed. The spawner biomass survey data demonstrated that the spawning habitat of anchovy was characterised by warm water and high salinity, whereas sardine spawning was associated with cool water and low salinity. The survey data showed significant differences in spawning habitat selection by anchovy and sardine for SST, salinity and zooplankton biomass, but not for the other environmental variables. There was a positive relationship between anchovy egg abundance and SST, salinity and mixed-layer depth, and a negative relationship with water depth, phytoplankton biomass and zooplankton production. For sardine there was a strong positive relationship between egg abundance and current speed and wind speed. Differences in the results between the two survey programmes could be attributable to differences in their spatio-temporal coverage. Spawning habitats of anchovy and sardine appear to be substantially different, with anchovy being more specific than sardine in their preference of various environmental conditions.

5/1605: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/decadalenvironmentalandecologicalchangesinthecanarycurrentlargemarineecosystemandadjacentwaterspatternsofconnectionsandteleconnection> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Decadal environmental and ecological changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem and adjacent waters : Patterns of connections and teleconnection
In order to explore decadal changes in the Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem (LME), wind and SST data collected by merchant ships are extracted from the Comprehensive Ocean Atmosphere Data Set (COADS) database from 1950 to 1995 within sixteen boxes along the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from 10°N up to 43°N.  Potential biases are reviewed and discussed when considering long-term changes and large spatial resolution. The heterogeneity of the seasonal patterns in the Canary current is described.  Decadal environmental changes are explored using Sea Surface Temperature (SST) data.  In the early and mid-1970s, an intensive cooling had a large latitudinal extension that affected the Canary Current LME and adjacent waters from Spain to Senegal.  This cooling period was followed by a warming period, which started in the 1980s. Fisheries, fish stock abundance as well as fish population distributions have drastically changed during the last five decades. The sardine populations off Morocco widely fluctuated in a disconnected manner and a substantial increase in biomass was observed in fishing zone C (located between 20°N and 27°N) during the mid-1970s and mid-1980s. Several outbursts of fish populations (Micromesistius poutassou, Macrorhamphosus scolopax and M. gracilis, Octopus vulgaris, Balistes carolinensis) were observed during the last three decades in the Canary Current. In the case of the latter species it was connected with the outburst populations which took place in the Gulf of Guinea LME.  Upwelling intensity and sea surface temperature are strongly linked and are thought to affect both spatial distribution and abundance of fish in the Canary Current LME.  Ecosystems appear to be connected at very large scales through climatic teleconnection between the Northern and Central Atlantic but also between the Pacific and the Atlantic as the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO) index and the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) events seem to have a major impact on the dynamics of the upwelling in the Canary Current.

6/1606: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/impactsofkelvinwaveforcingintheperuhumboldtcurrentsystemscenariosofspatialreorganizationsfromphysicstofishers> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Impacts of Kelvin wave forcing in the Peru Humboldt Current system: Scenarios of spatial reorganizations from physics to fishers
Because climate change challenges the sustainability of important fish populations and the fisheries they support, we need to understand how large scale climatic forcing affects the functioning of marine ecosystems. In the Humboldt Current system (HCS), a main driver of climatic variability is coastally-trapped Kelvin waves (KWs), themselves originating as oceanic equatorial KWs. Here we (i) describe the spatial reorganizations of living organisms in the Humboldt coastal system as affected by oceanic KWs forcing, (ii) quantify the strength of the interactions between the physical and biological component dynamics of the system, (iii) formulate hypotheses on the processes which drive the redistributions of the organisms, and (iv) build scenarios of space occupation in the HCS under varying KW forcing. To address these questions we explore, through bivariate lagged correlations and multivariate statistics, the relationships between time series of oceanic KW amplitude (TAO mooring data and model-resolved baroclinic modes) and coastal Peruvian oceanographic data (SST, coastal upwelled waters extent), anchoveta spatial distribution (mean distance to the coast, spatial concentration of the biomass, mean depth of the schools), and fishing fleet statistics (trip duration, searching duration, number of fishing sets and catch per trip, features of the foraging trajectory as observed by satellite vessel monitoring system). Data sets span all or part of January 1983 to September 2006. The results show that the effects of oceanic KW forcing are significant in all the components of the coastal ecosystem, from oceanography to the behaviour of the top predators – fishers. This result provides evidence for a bottom-up transfer of the behaviours and spatial stucturing through the ecosystem. We propose that contrasting scenarios develop during the passage of upwelling versus downwelling KWs. From a predictive point of view, we show that KW amplitudes observed in the mid-Pacific can be used to forecast which system state will dominate the HCS over the next 2–6 months. Such predictions should be integrated in the Peruvian adaptive fishery management.

7/1607: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/vascocirenemeasurementssupplementdecireneairseainteractionsintheseychelleschagosthermoclineridgeregion> : SCORE = 0.71651775
Doc : 'Vasco–Cirene measurements', supplément de "Cirene: Air–Sea Interactions in the Seychelles–Chagos Thermocline Ridge Region"
T
he Vasco–Cirene field experiment, in January–
February 2007, targeted the Seychelles–Chagos
thermocline ridge (SCTR) region, with the main purpose of investigating Madden–Julian Oscillation (MJO)-related SST events. The Validation of the Aeroclipper System under Convective Occurrences (Vasco) experiment (Duvel et al. 2009) and Cirene cruise were designed to provide complementary views of air–sea interaction in the SCTR region. While meteorological balloons were deployed from the Seychelles as a part of Vasco, the Research Vessel (R/V) Suroît was cruising the SCTR region as a part of Cirene.[...]

8/1608: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/schoolingbehaviourandenvironmentalforcinginrelationtoanchovetadistributionananalysisacrossmultiplespatialscales> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Schooling behaviour and environmental forcing in relation to anchoveta distribution: an analysis across multiple spatial scales
The Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) supports the highest worldwide fishery landings and varies in space and time over many scales. Here we present the first comprehensive sub-mesocale study of anchoveta distribution in relation to the environment. During November 2004, we conducted a behavioural ecology survey off central Peru and used a series of observational and sampling tools including SST and CO2 sensors, Niskin bottles, CTD probes, zooplankton sampling, stomach content analysis, echo-sounder, multibeam sonar, and bird observations. The sub-mesoscale survey areas were chosen from mesoscale acoustic surveys. A routine coast-wide (not, vert, similar2000 km) acoustic survey performed just after the sub-mesoscale surveys, provided information at an even larger population scale. The availability of nearly concurrent sub-mesoscale, mesoscale and coast-wide information on anchoveta distribution allowed for a unique multi-scale synthesis. At the sub-mesoscale (100s m to km) physical processes (internal waves and frontogenesis) concentrated plankton into patches and determined anchoveta spatial distribution. At the mesoscale (10s km) location relative to the zone of active upwelling (and age of the upwelled water) and the depth of the oxycline had strong impacts on the anchoveta. Finally, over 100s km the size of the productive area, as defined by the upwelled cold coastal waters, was the determining factor. We propose a conceptual view of the relative importance of social behaviour and environmental (biotic and abiotic) processes on the spatial distribution of anchoveta. Our ecological space has two y-axis; one based on self-organization (social behaviour), and the other based on the environmental processes. At scales from the individual (10s cm), to the nucleus (m), social behaviour (e.g. the need to school) drives spatial organization. At scales larger than the school, environmental forces are the main driver of fish distribution. The conceptual ecosystem models presented in this paper may provide the final links needed to develop accurate forecasts of the spatial distribution of anchoveta over multiple scales.

9/1609: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysingmultipletimeseriesandextendingsignificancetestinginwaveletanalysis> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Analysing multiple time series and extending significance testing in wavelet analysis
In nature, non-stationarity is rather typical, but the number of statistical tools allowing for non-stationarity remains rather limited. Wavelet analysis is such a tool allowing for non-stationarity but the lack of an appropriate test for statistical inference as well as the difficulty to deal with multiple time series are 2 important shortcomings that limits its use in ecology. We present 2 approaches to deal with these shortcomings. First, we used 1/f beta models to test cycles in the wavelet spectrum against a null hypothesis that takes into account the highly autocorrelated nature of ecological time series. To illustrate the approach, we investigated the fluctuations in bluefin tuna trap catches with a set of different null models. The 1/f beta models approach proved to be the most consistent to discriminate significant cycles. Second, we used the maximum covariance analysis to compare, in a quantitative way, the time-frequency patterns (i.e. the wavelet spectra) of numerous time series. This approach built cluster trees that grouped the wavelet spectra according to their time-frequency patterns. Controlled signals and time series of sea surface temperature (SST) in the Mediterranean Sea were used to test the ability and power of this approach. The results were satisfactory and clusters on the SST time series displayed a hierarchical division of the Mediterranean into a few homogeneous areas that are known to display different hydrological and oceanic patterns. We discuss the limits and potentialities of these methods to study the associations between ecological and environmental fluctuations.

10/1610: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/generalisedmodelofprimaryproductioninthesouthernbenguelaupwellingsystem> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : Generalised model of primary production in the southern Benguela upwelling system
We provide a proof-of-concept demonstration using a novel method for estimating depth-integrated distributions of chlorophyll from archives of data from ships, buoys or gliders combined with remotely sensed data of sea surface temperature (SST) and surface chlorophyll a (chl a) from satellites. Our area of application has contrasting hydrographic regimes, which include the dynamic southern Benguela upwelling system and the stratified waters of the Agulhas Bank, South Africa. The method involves using self-organising maps (SOMs), a type of artificial neural network, to identify ‘typical' chl a profiles regardless of their statistical form, provided several of a similar shape have been found in the training set. These are arranged in a linear array, ranging from uniform profiles low in chl a to profiles with high surface or subsurface peaks. We then use generalised modelling to relate these characteristic profiles to remotely sensed surface features, viz. surface chl a and SST, as well as area, season, and water depth (a proxy for distance offshore). The model accounts for 87% of the variability in chl a profile and is used to predict the type of profile likely for each pixel in monthly remote sensing composites of SST and surface chl a and then to estimate integrated chl a and primary production with the aid of a light model. Primary production peaks in mid-summer, reaching 5 mgC m–2 d–1 locally, with an average over the whole area and all seasons of 1.4 mgC m–2 d–1. Seasonal variation is greatest in the southern part of the west coast, and lowest in the stratified southeast. Annual primary production for the southern Benguela region including the Agulhas Bank is ca. 156 million tC yr–1. This is the most robust estimate of primary production in the Benguela system to date because it combines the spatial and temporal coverage provided by remote sensing with realistic vertical chl a profiles.



1415) Recherche du mot : Snake mackerel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lagocephalus_sceleratus)


1416) Recherche du mot : Percebe bravo (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lepas_anatifera)


1417) Recherche du mot : Wikipedia identifier for a taxon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/wikiId)


1418) Recherche du mot : Cap Bojador (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/cap_bojador)


1419) Recherche du mot : Petrel gris (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/procellaria_cinerea)


1420) Recherche du mot : powerblock (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/powerblock)


1421) Recherche du mot : yves de kerguelen (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/yves_de_kerguelen)


1422) Recherche du mot : vegetal (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/vegetal)


1423) Recherche du mot : Thon Patudo (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_obesus)


1424) Recherche du mot : Wahoo (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/acanthocybium_solandri)
1/1611: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysisofdataobtainedfromobserverprogrammesconductedinandintheindianoceanonboardfrenchpurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Analysis of data obtained from observer programmes conducted in 2005 and 2006 in the indian ocean on board french purse seiners
This paper is a preliminary analysis of the data obtained under the National Database Plan (PNDB).
Between October 2005 and July 2006, three observers from the Development and Research Institute
(IRD) have been on board four French tuna purse seiners. They had to estimate by-catch and discard
and collect detailed information on the fishing activities and the use of FADs.
Areas prospected during these 134 days were NW Seychelles, SE Seychelles, E. Somalia and
Maldives-Chagos; 194 sets (116 positives and 86 negative) have been observed, with a majority
(84%) on free schools (162 sets, 51% positive) and quite few (16%) on associated schools (32 sets,
81% positives). During the day, the main activities of the boat were searching and fishing,
respectively 31% and 13% of total activity. Main reasons for null sets over free school as well as
FADs was that fish sinks or move too fast.
Discards were practically nulls and concerned mainly yellowfin tuna. About by-catch, it represents
less than 1% of total catch (in weight), mainly triggerfish, rainbow runner and wahoo. Selacians
(except shark whales) represented nearly 12% of the total by-catch (in weight) with mainly silky shark
over FADs and skate over free school. As regards billfishes, they represent 5% of total by-catch (in
weight) with mainly Indo-Pacific Sailfish over free school and black marlin over FADs.

2/1612: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitelinkedacousticreceiverstoobservebehavioroffishesinremoteareas> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Satellite-linked acoustic receivers to observe behavior of fishes in remote areas
Automated acoustic receivers are now widely used by biologists to study the behavior of fish. However, currently available acoustic receivers require physical recovery of the units to download stored data. Such operation is often difficult in remote study areas like in the open ocean. We present a new satellite-linked acoustic receiver (Vemco VR3-Argos) that allows downloading data through a satellite uplink (Argos). The VR3-Argos can last up to one year, sending GPS positions and tag data at regular time intervals. We illustrate the advantages of this new technology with tagging data from 121 fish of seven species (yellowfin tuna, bigeye tuna, skipjack tuna, wahoo, dolphinfish, silky shark and oceanic triggerfish) caught and released around drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean, far from any land. In opposition with the classic acoustic receivers (Vemco VR2), the use of VR3-Argos allowed to collect data for several weeks after leaving the drifting FADs. Maximum residence times of 3 days for bigeye tuna, 7 days for skipjack, 8 days for wahoo, 10 days for silky shark and 15 days for yellowfin tuna, dolphinfish and oceanic triggerfish could be recorded. VR2 and VR3-Argos are equivalent in terms of quality of residence times data, however depth data obtained through satellites are aggregated in 8 classes for compression purposes, which leads to a loss of precision available with raw data. Future directions of this technology are discussed.

3/1613: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/mercurycontentincommercialpelagicfishanditsriskassessmentinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Mercury content in commercial pelagic fish and its risk assessment in the Western Indian Ocean
As top predators of pelagic food webs, large fish naturally bioaccumulate mercury (Hg). Determining Hg burdens in commercialized fish is essential considering the concern about effects of contaminants on human health and the legal thresholds that are therefore set for local consumption and/or exportation. Total Hg levels were measured in the muscular tissue of 183 fish of five commercially important species from the tropical zone of the Western Indian Ocean. All individuals were measured and sexed in order to study the impregnation of Hg with size and sex within each species. Values of Hg found in this part of the Indian Ocean were comparable to Hg in muscular tissue of the same species studied in other areas. The highest Hg levels were noted in Swordfish (Xiphias gladius) caught in waters surrounding Reunion Island (3.97 ± 2.67 μg.g−1 dry weight). Following the Swordfish, in decreasing order of Hg content, were the Yellowfin Tuna (Thunnus albacares) and the Skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis), then the Common Dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus) and the Wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri ). In the North of the Mozambique Channel, Swordfish had higher Hg levels than Yellowfin Tunas, and Dolphinfish exhibited intermediate Hg levels. The size of a fish was a determinating factor of its Hg burden, as was the species. Differences in size-normalized Hg levels were observed between the two study zones for Swordfish and Common Dolphinfish. Sex, in contrast, did not influence Hg levels suggesting that females and males have similar feeding habits. The muscular Hg levels presented here suggest that consumers of fish originating from theWestern Indian Ocean should limit themselves to one Swordfish based meal per week, or one fish meal a day if they choose to eat tuna or Common Dolphinfish.

4/1614: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.35825887
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.



1425) Recherche du mot : Via Euros (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/via_euros)


1426) Recherche du mot : Outil d'acquisition de données (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/data_acquisition_tool)


1427) Recherche du mot : histioteuthidae sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/histioteuthidae_sp)


1428) Recherche du mot : élément atmospherique (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/atmospheric_element)


1429) Recherche du mot : Longline fishery, Reunion Island, France. (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/fisheryWithOctopus_vulgaris)


1430) Recherche du mot : Frigate tuna (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_thazard)


1431) Recherche du mot : Alopias superciliosus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alopias_superciliosus)


1432) Recherche du mot : Longnose lancetfish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/alepisaurus_ferox)
1/1615: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/roleofpelagiccrustaceansinthedietofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxintheseychelleswaters> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) in the Seychelles waters
The role of pelagic crustaceans in the diet of the longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox was investigated from stomach content analysis of fish collected in the waters surrounding the Seychelles Archipelago in the western Indian Ocean. Crustaceans accounted for 88.4% by prey number and 73.7% by reconstituted mass during the South-West monsoon season. During the North-East monsoon season, crustaceans remained the main prey group and accounted for 63.7% by prey number and 46% by reconstituted mass. There was a clear seasonal pattern with the portunid crab Charybdis smithii predominating during the South-West monsoon season and the pelagic stomatopod Natosquilla investigatoris during the North-East monsoon season. This pattern likely reflects variations in prey availability linked to current movements around the Seychelles Archipelago. Most of the prey consisted of slow-swimming and small individuals, which occur in dense swarms during the pelagic phase of their life history. The dietary trends of lancetfish are consistent with opportunistic feeding on the most abundant prey. They exploit short food chains based on carnivorous crustaceans, and play an important role in the pelagic trophic functioning of the western Indian Ocean.

2/1616: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/regionalfeedingpatternsofthelongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxofthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.4475844
Doc : Regional feeding patterns of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox) of the western Indian Ocean
The food composition of the longnose lancetfish (Alepisaurus ferox Lowe, 1833) was studied in two areas belonging to different biogeographic provinces of the western Indian Ocean: Indian Monsoon Gyres Province (MONS) and Indian South Subtropical Gyre Province (ISSG). A total of 158 lancetfish were sampled during two research longline cruises in 1986-1987: 50 within the MONS, from the western equatorial area (between the EEZs of Kenya and Seychelles) and 108 within the ISSG, from the northern part of the EEZ of Mauritius (Saya-de-Malha Bank – Agalega Islands area). In the equatorial area, 135 prey items (of 18 families or higher taxa) were found in the lancetfish stomachs. In the waters of Mauritius, 476 prey items of 53 taxa were recorded. Regional variability in the feeding habits reflects province-specific differences in the prey abundance and the structure of pelagic communities of the intermediate trophic levels. Large predatory crustaceans dominate in the waters of MONS, while they are absent in the poor waters of ISSG. Foraging success of the lancetfish on non-evasive prey was 3.2 times higher in the MONS than in the ISSG. In overall, swimming crab, Hyperiidea, conspecifics, barracudina, hatchetfish, hammerjaw, and Polychaeta were the predominant prey of the lancetfish. Great differences in the food composition of ‘small' (FL

3/1617: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/variabilityinconspecificpredationamonglongnoselancetfishalepisaurusferoxinthewesternindianocean> : SCORE = 1.7371012
Doc : Variability in conspecific predation among longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox in the western Indian Ocean
Conspecific predation among longnose lancetfish Alepisaurus ferox was investigated in four spatio-temporal strate of the western Indian Ocean. The cannibalism level varied from 0 to 45.5% by frequency of occurrence and was negatively related with abundance of non-evasive prey (such as crustaceans Charybdis smithii and Natosquilla investigatoris) and foraging success. Predation by lancetfish is often described as a non-selective process, constrained by local prey availability and by its feeding speed during an attack of prey. Our results show that lancetfish may adapt its opportunistic foraging behavior, feeding on non-conspecific abundant prey such as crustaceans when available, and switching to a high level of conspecific predation in poor waters.



1433) Recherche du mot : devil fish (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mobula_mobula)


1434) Recherche du mot : Ostracion cubicus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ostracion_cubicus)


1435) Recherche du mot : gear (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/hasGear)
1/1618: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteonthestockstructureofpacificbigeyetunatobeusedinstockassessments> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Note on the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna to be used in stock assessments
This paper reviews and discusses the stock structure of Pacific bigeye tuna in relation with the prospects of stock assessment analysis of this population. The analysis of fishery data, mainly the spatio temporal bigeye catches by gear and by sizes, indicates that the present 150°W frontier based on historical and administrative results does not appear to be a convenient biological frontier. Our conclusion is that the present lack of significant tag recoveries across the 150°W frontier should not be considered as being significant, due to the limited numbers of bigeye presently tagged and to the great distances between present tagging locations. North South movements of adult bigeye are also a potential source of mixing between eastern and western bigeye populations. It is hypothetized that there could be an increased net flow of juvenile bigeye towards the WCPO due to the increased number of FADs in the western EPO. Our conclusion is that all the bigeye stock assessments by WCPFC and the IATTC should preferably be conducted in a unified best model and at a Pacific wide scale. A large scale tagging programme covering the distribution area of the entire bigeye population and fully coordinated between WCPFC and IATTC would be necessary to obtain realistic and age specific movement patterns at a Pacific wide level. Management actions of the bigeye stocks should also be fully coordinated between the Western and Eastern stocks, because of the probably weak biological frontier and also because of the bigeye long life span. The long term management benefits or failures will probably be shared by WCPFC and IATTC.

2/1619: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statitiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileependantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Statitiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée pendant la période 1991-2006
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of the European and similar baitboat and
purse seine fleets7 from 1991 to 2006. The data in this document for 1991 to 2006 have been revised and
completed for 2005-2006. The species breakdown of the catches in 2006 is provisional and should be
subject to verification. The document gives information on the characteristics of the fleets (fishing type
by category, in number), fishing effort by type and size category of the vessels, the number of 1o areas
visited by the fleet per year during the period, the catches, standardized effort and the CPUEs by
species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as well as the catches by size classes per quarter for
each of the three species and for the two gears, and the average individual weights by species (by
quarter and by gear). Fishing maps are also provided indicating the deployment of the fleet in the
eastern Atlantic as well as the time-area breakdown of the catches of the European and similar purse
seiners in 2006, compared to the average of 2001-2005.

3/1620: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/evaluationoftheperformanceandrobustnessofvpabasedstockassessmentandmsybasedmanagementstrategytoprocesserrortheatlanticbluefintunacasestudy> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Evaluation of the performance and robustness of VPA-based stock assessment and MSY-based management strategy to process error : The Atlantic bluefin tuna case study
An integrative simulation framework was built to evaluate the consequences of variability attributable to changes in carrying capacity or the stock's migration pattern of Atlantic bluefin tuna on the ICCAT stock assessment and management procedures. We also evaluated the performances of stock assessment methods with respect to their ability to provide good estimates of MSY, FMSY and BMSY and tested the robustness of the current ICCAT management strategy to uncertainty about the true dynamics and historical exploitation levels. The results clearly indicate that the VPA performances were seriously impaired if the long-term variations in catches are due to changes in migration/availability. There is further considerable confounding between the underlying dynamics and increasing effort that makes it difficult to draw any inference about the actual dynamics based on commercial catch data. Reference points based on F (e.g., F0.1) were less biased and more precise than those based on yield and/or SSB and were also more robust to uncertainty about the true dynamics than absolute values of F and SSB. However, F0.1 cannot indicate past and current levels of exploitation relative to FMSY when there is uncertainty about the dynamics. Therefore, while reference points such as F0.1 may be good proxies for FMSY, the MSY concept may be difficult to make operational. A size limit strategy generates greater yields than the more sophisticated F0.1, but lower SSB. However, the performances of both strategies were strongly dependent on the period over which they are implemented relative to the intrinsic cycle of the population. We finally stressed that the performances and robustness of management strategies also depend on concrete objectives, such as fleet composition, gear selectivity and economic constraints.

4/1621: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/noteontheyearlycatchesbycountryandgearofthefismfranceivorycoastsenegalmoroccofleetduringtheperiod> : SCORE = 0.8685506
Doc : Note on the yearly catches by country and gear of the FISM (France - Ivory Coast - Senegal - Morocco) fleet during the 1969-1990 period
The current ICCAT Task 1 statistics database does not include any record of catch for Senegal and Ivory Coast during the period 1969-1990 as these data were historically included in the aggregated catch data of the so-called “FISM” fleet under the flag ‘EC.France'. Landing and logbook data were used to reallocate the FISM fleet catch between countries. This analysis shows the need to clarify the Task 1 ICCAT statistics by country and historic gear, and ask France, Ivory Coast and Senegal to declare their respective catch during 1969-1990. This change in the ICCAT database will not affect the total catch of Task 1 statistics.

5/1622: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/pelagiclonglinefishingdepthconfrontingcatenarytheorydatawithdepthobservationsfrommonitoredlonglinefishingexperimentswp> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Pelagic longline fishing depth: Confronting catenary theory data with depth observations from monitored longline fishing experiments (WP5)
The aim of this paper is to ascertain the accuracy of hooks depth distribution estimated from the catenary theory model commonly used in CPUE standardization. From hook depth observations collected during monitored longline fishing experiments conducted in the central part of the South Pacific Ocean, we explore the effects of several environmental descriptors and variables describing gear configuration and fishing tactic on the longline shoaling (i.e., the difference between the observed and the theoretical maximum fishing depth). Our results showed that the shoaling (absolute and relative) can be significantly influenced by the current shear, the direction of the setting and the shape of the mainline (i.e., the tangential angle) which is the strongest and the most consistent predictor in GLMs. Some simple transformations are proposed to account for the non-linearity between the shoaling and the explanatory variables. As a consequence, our findings suggest that catenary maximum fishing depth estimates or the number of hooks per basket should be used with caution in methods addressed for CPUE standardization. In addition, we conclude by a discussion on how suitable data could be collected routinely on commercial fishing vessels in order to estimate the maximum fishing depth at the set operation level.

6/1623: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/complexinterplaysamongpopulationdynamicsenvironmentalforcingandexploitationinfisheries> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Complex interplays among population dynamics, environmental forcing, and exploitation in fisheries
The patterns of variations in fisheries time series are known to result from a complex combination of species and fisheries dynamics all coupled with environmental forcing (including climate, trophic interactions, etc.). Disentangling the relative effects of these factors has been a major goal of fisheries science for both conceptual and management reasons. By examining the variability of 169 tuna and billfish time series of catch and catch per unit effort (CPUE) throughout the Atlantic as well as their linkage to the North Atlantic Oscillation (NAO), we find that the importance of these factors differed according to the spatial scale. At the scale of the entire Atlantic the patterns of variations are primarily spatially structured, whereas at a more regional scale the patterns of variations were primarily related to the fishing gear. Furthermore, the NAO appeared to also structure the patterns of variations of tuna time series, especially over the North Atlantic. We conclude that the patterns of variations in fisheries time series of tuna and billfish only poorly reflect the underlying dynamics of these fish populations; they appear to be shaped by several successive embedded processes, each interacting with each other. Our results emphasize the necessity for scientific data when investigating the population dynamics of large pelagic fishes, because CPUE fluctuations are not directly attributable to change in species' abundance.

7/1624: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethonierefrancaisedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière française durant la période 1991- 2006
This document presents a statistical summary of the fleet activity of the French baitboats and purse
seiners from 1991 to 2006. The historical data for the FIS6 fleet from 1969 to 1990 was described in a
previous document (Diouf et Fonteneau 1997). The data from that document have been revised and
completed for 2006. The document gives information on the fleet characteristics (fishing type by
category, in number), fishing effort by type and size category of the vessels, the number of 1o areas
visited by the fleet per year during the period, the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for
the baitboats and purse seiners, as well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three
species and for the two gears, and the average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear).
The species breakdown of the catches in 2006 is provisional and should be subject to verification. Some
fishing maps area also presented indicating the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic, as well as the
time-area breakdown of the French baitboat and purse seine catches in 2006, as compared to the
average of 2001-2005.

8/1625: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/effectsofthegeardeploymentstrategyandcurrentshearonpelagiclonglineshoaling> : SCORE = 0.62052256
Doc : Effects of the gear deployment strategy and current shear on pelagic longline shoaling
Historical longline catch per unit effort (CPUE) constitutes the major time series used in tuna stock assessment to followthe trend in abundance since the beginning of the large-scale tuna fisheries. The efficiency and species composition of a longline fishing operations essentially depends on the overlap in the vertical and spatial distribution between hooks and species habitat. Longline catchability depends on the vertical distribution of hooks and the aim of our paper was to analyse principal factors affecting the deviation of observed longline hook depths from predicted values. Since observed hook depth is usually shallower than predicted, this deviation is called longline shoaling.We evaluate the accuracy of hook depth distribution estimated from a theoretical catenary model commonly used in longline CPUE standardizations. Temperature-depth recorders (TDRs) were deployed on baskets of a monitored longline. Mainline shapes and maximum fishing depths were similar to gear configurations commonly used to target both yellowfin and bigeye tuna by commercial longliners in the central part of the South Pacific Ocean. Our working hypothesis assumes that the maximum fishing depth reached by the mainline depends on the gear configuration (sag ratio, mainline length per basket), the fishing tactics (bearing of the setting) and environmental variables characterizing water mass dynamics (wind stress, current velocity and shear). Based on generalized additive models (GAMs) simple transformations are proposed to account for the non-linearity between the shoaling and explanatory variables. Then, generalized linear models (GLMs) were fit to model the effects of explanatory variables on the longline shoaling. Results indicated that the shoaling (absolute aswell as relative) was significantly influenced by (1) the shape of the mainline (i.e., the tangential angle), which is the strongest predictor, and (2) the current shear and the direction of setting. Geometric forcing (i.e. transverse versus in-line) between the environment and the longline set is shown for the first time from in situ experimental fishing data. Results suggest that a catenary model that does not take these factors into consideration provides a biased estimate of the vertical distribution of hooks and must be used with caution in CPUEs standardization methods. Since catchability varies in time and space we discuss how suitable data could be routinely collected onboard commercial fishing vessels in order to estimate longline catchability for stock assessments.
© 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved..

9/1626: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/esessioniotc> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : 8e session IOTC
The number of hooks between floats (HBF) is classically considered in standardization studies of the longline fishing effort as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. The explanation of this choice is easy for understanding : an increase of the HBF (then an increase of the length of the mainline between floats represents a increase in fishing depths. Probably, this relationship has been valid for traditional longlines until the end of eighties. However, the modernization of the fishing gear (monofilament mainline, shooter, snaps) has considerably modified the tradition and has led to a wide diversification of setting tactics. As a related consequence of this modernization, HBF has lost his property as a proxy indicator of the maximum fishing depth. In this work, we show briefly why the relationship between HPB and the maximum fishing depth is artificial. This hypothesis is supported from a comparative analysis of temporal series of the average HBF and the weight contribution of albacore and bigeye in catches. This fact underlines the problem of the use of HBF in the frame of the measure of the effective fishing effort in longline fisheries (GLM approach). In this context, the necessity of additional information characterizing longlining strategies is discussed.

10/1627: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 0.8864608
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.

11/1628: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/acousticdatacollectedduringandbetweenbottomtrawlstationsconsistencyandcommontrends> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Acoustic data collected during and between bottom trawl stations: consistency and common trends
Acoustic data are often collected during bottom trawl surveys. Their use can potentially improve the precision and accuracy of fish abundance estimates if acoustic data collected between trawl stations are consistent with those collected during trawling operations. This question is addressed here through the analysis of 20 bottom trawl surveys (three survey areas and five different survey series) with coincident acoustic measurements during and between trawl stations. Firstly, on-station and underway acoustic data were compared using statistics computed globally over each survey (average vertical profiles, global indices of collocations, and spatial structures) for various combinations of depth layers. Secondly, we focussed on underway acoustic data recorded in the vicinity of stations, distinguishing between data recorded before and after the tows. On-station and underway acoustic data were highly consistent, and no systematic perturbation of the acoustic sign due to the presence of the gear a few hundred metres behind the vessel was observed.

12/1629: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethonierefisdurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière FIS durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary of FIS6 baitboat and purse seine fleet activities
from 1991 to 2004. The historical data from 1969 to 1990 were described in a previous
document (Diouf and Fonteneau 1997). The data collected from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2004. The document provides indications regarding fleet
characteristics (type of gear by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category of
the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for baitboats and purse seiners, as well as
the catches by different size classes by quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, and the average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic, as well as the time-area
breakdown of French purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average situation of 1999-
2004.

13/1630: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of European and assimilated6
baitboat and purse seine fleets from 1991 to 2004. The data from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2003. The document provides information regarding fleet
characteristics (type of fishing by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category
of the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as
well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, as well as average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic as well as the time-area
breakdown of European and assimilated purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average
situation of 1999-2003.

14/1631: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/statistiquesdelapecheriethoniereeuropeenneetassimileedurantlaperiode> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : Statistiques de la pêcherie thonière européenne et assimilée durant la période 1991-2004
This document presents a statistical summary on the activity of European and assimilated6
baitboat and purse seine fleets from 1991 to 2004. The data from 1991 to 2004 in this document
have been revised and completed for 2003. The document provides information regarding fleet
characteristics (type of fishing by category in number), fishing effort by type and size category
of the vessels, the number of one degree squares visited by the fleet per year during the period,
the catches, standardized effort and CPUE by species for the baitboats and the purse seiners, as
well as the catches by size classes per quarter for each of the three species and for the two
gears, as well as average individual weights by species (by quarter and by gear). Fishing maps
are also presented showing the deployment of the fleet in the Atlantic as well as the time-area
breakdown of European and assimilated purse seine catches in 2004 compared to the average
situation of 1999-2003.



1436) Recherche du mot : Opa (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lampris_guttatus)
1/1632: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/gaoanenvironmentaldatabaseandsoftwaredesignedforfisheriesbiologists> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : GAO: an environmental database and software designed for fisheries biologists
This paper presents a software (GAO) processing oceanographic data for fisheries research.
GAO is built from large datasets covering the tropical Atlantic and Indian Oceans, some
records starting in the early years of the 20th century. Observations are restricted to the upper
500m of the ocean, which encompasses most of the habitat of tunas and other top predators of
the offshore pelagic ecosystem. The datasets include oceanographic stations (temperature,
salinity, dissolved oxygen, phosphates and nitrates at depth levels), vertical temperature
profiles (MBTs, XBTs, CTDs), outputs of the OPA ocean circulation model (temperature,
salinity, current vectors, vertical velocity, at 13 depth levels), sea surface temperature and
wind-derived fields, Topex sea level anomalies and soon, a temperature-at-depth database at
grid points on the global ocean. These datasets are prepared in a way enabling data storage
and processing on the local hard disk of a standard personal computer. A Windows® software
performs extraction and queries on these databases. The goal of GAO is to be an easy-tohandle
tool for working groups in the fisheries domain, where quick reference to physical
environment is sometimes required.



1437) Recherche du mot : whale shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/rhincodon_typus)


1438) Recherche du mot : Avel vad (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/avel_vad)


1439) Recherche du mot : Sealifebase identifier for a taxon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/sealifebaseId)


1440) Recherche du mot : Administration tool (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/administration_tool)


1441) Recherche du mot : Sula variegata (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sula_variegata)


1442) Recherche du mot : nid de pie (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/nid_de_pie)


1443) Recherche du mot : Prince de Joinville (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/prince_de_Joinville)


1444) Recherche du mot : Germon (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_alalunga)


1445) Recherche du mot : binoculars (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/binoculars)


1446) Recherche du mot : D'ZOUDZI (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_MYT_DZA)


1447) Recherche du mot : Escolar clavo (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/ruvettus_pretiosus)


1448) Recherche du mot : Pulpo manta (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/tremoctopus_violaceus)


1449) Recherche du mot : Thunnus atlanticus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thunnus_atlanticus)


1450) Recherche du mot : Mobula spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/mobula_spp)


1451) Recherche du mot : Melvera (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_rochei)


1452) Recherche du mot : CTD (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/CTD)
1/1633: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/schoolingbehaviourandenvironmentalforcinginrelationtoanchovetadistributionananalysisacrossmultiplespatialscales> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Schooling behaviour and environmental forcing in relation to anchoveta distribution: an analysis across multiple spatial scales
The Peruvian anchovy or anchoveta (Engraulis ringens) supports the highest worldwide fishery landings and varies in space and time over many scales. Here we present the first comprehensive sub-mesocale study of anchoveta distribution in relation to the environment. During November 2004, we conducted a behavioural ecology survey off central Peru and used a series of observational and sampling tools including SST and CO2 sensors, Niskin bottles, CTD probes, zooplankton sampling, stomach content analysis, echo-sounder, multibeam sonar, and bird observations. The sub-mesoscale survey areas were chosen from mesoscale acoustic surveys. A routine coast-wide (not, vert, similar2000 km) acoustic survey performed just after the sub-mesoscale surveys, provided information at an even larger population scale. The availability of nearly concurrent sub-mesoscale, mesoscale and coast-wide information on anchoveta distribution allowed for a unique multi-scale synthesis. At the sub-mesoscale (100s m to km) physical processes (internal waves and frontogenesis) concentrated plankton into patches and determined anchoveta spatial distribution. At the mesoscale (10s km) location relative to the zone of active upwelling (and age of the upwelled water) and the depth of the oxycline had strong impacts on the anchoveta. Finally, over 100s km the size of the productive area, as defined by the upwelled cold coastal waters, was the determining factor. We propose a conceptual view of the relative importance of social behaviour and environmental (biotic and abiotic) processes on the spatial distribution of anchoveta. Our ecological space has two y-axis; one based on self-organization (social behaviour), and the other based on the environmental processes. At scales from the individual (10s cm), to the nucleus (m), social behaviour (e.g. the need to school) drives spatial organization. At scales larger than the school, environmental forces are the main driver of fish distribution. The conceptual ecosystem models presented in this paper may provide the final links needed to develop accurate forecasts of the spatial distribution of anchoveta over multiple scales.

2/1634: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/capturabilitedesgrandspelagiquesexploitesalapalangrederivantedanslazoneeconomiqueexclusivedesseychelles> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : CAPturabilité des grands PElagiques exploités à la palangre dérivante dans la Zone Economique Exclusive des Seychelles
In 2004, the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) in collaboration with IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement) started a research program, called CAPPES, to help the local semi industrial longline fishery, which was encountering some difficulties. For that purpose 69 sets using an instrumented line (Hook timer, Temperature-Depth-Recorder, CTD profiler) were done around the Mahe Plateau. The objectives were to study the behaviour of the gear, the habitat of the target species (tuna and swordfish) and the efficiency of different types of bait. In total 29 449 hooks were deployed and 1478 fishes caught. The 11 research trips allowed the crew to master the use of the gear. A manual showing various gear configurations as a function of the depth targeted will be provided to the skippers. Concerning the bait test, some interesting results were obtained with small bonitos (discard of purse seine) and saury. Habitat results have to be more deeply analysed. The trips also gave the opportunity to observe in situ the predation problem that the industry has to face. Hence a quite important predation rate (1.73) was calculated for the whole program.
In general more trials are needed to make in-depth analysis. These will be possible through the SWIOPF program, which should begin in 2007.



1453) Recherche du mot : moat (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/moat)


1454) Recherche du mot : BANDAR-ABBAS (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_IRN_BND)


1455) Recherche du mot : Onychoteuthis banksii (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/onychoteuthis_banksi)


1456) Recherche du mot : ABIDJAN (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/harbour_CIV_ABJ)
1/1635: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/growthofbigeyetunathunnusobesusintheeasternatlanticoceanfromtaggingrecapturedataandotolithsreadings> : SCORE = 0.7237922
Doc : Growth of bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) in the Eastern Atlantic ocean from tagging-recapture data and otoliths readings
Growth of bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) in the eastern Atlantic Ocean is studied from (1) 625
bigeye tagged and recaptured with a fork length (FL) range 37-124 cm, (2) otoliths collected on
108 bigeye in Dakar from which 83 were use to validate the growth ring deposit by oxytetracyclin
antibiotic injection, and (3) otoliths from 147 bigeye collected in Abidjan. For
otoliths, the sizes of Dakar bigeye range from 37 cm to 112 cm FL (almost all juveniles), those
from Abidjan from 29 cm to 190 cm (juveniles and adults). Growth curves obtained from the
two different sets of data are similar so all data are combined to give a single growth curve for
bigeye with K=0.180 yr-1
, L∞ = 217.3 cm and t0 = -0.709 year. The interest of this approach is
the confirmation of the daily rate for ring deposit on otoliths and the use of both tagging and
otoliths' reading to estimate growth parameters.

2/1636: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/somepreliminaryresultsontunadiscardsandbycatchinthefrenchtunapurseseinefisheryoftheindianocean> : SCORE = 0.62052256
Doc : Some preliminary results on tuna discards and bycatch in the french tuna purse seine fishery of the Indian Ocean
Estimates of discards and bycatch in the French purse seine fishery of the eastern Atlantic Ocean were derived from observer trips conducted during 20052008 within the framework of the European 'Data Collection Regulation' (CE 1639/2001). Results showed that there was almost no tuna discard observed on free schools during this period and that skipjack (Katsuwonus pelamis) described by a median size of 37 cm and little tunny (Euthynnus alleteratus) composed the bulk of the tuna discards that were essentially made under fishing aggregating devices (FADs). In 2007, the average discard rates of skipjack and yellowfin tunas under FAD were estimated at 42.9 kg and 1.3 kg per ton landed, respectively. Small skipjacks have dominated the “faux poisson” tuna landings in Abidjan since the early 1980s while small yellowfin have contributed to a smaller extent. The importance of the French purse seine fishing fleet on the “faux poisson” market has strongly varied since the 1980s and has decreased from about 3040% of total “faux poisson” landings in the early 2000s to less than 10% in the recent years. The average rate of “faux poisson” for skipjack and yellowfin landed by the French purse seine fleet was estimated about 150 kg and 15 kg per ton of fish destined to the canneries during 20042007, respectively. Data samples on size of “faux poisson” collected at the fishing port of Abidjan showed that there was no significant difference between discard and “faux poisson” size distributions for skipjack, yellowfin, and bigeye tunas. Quantities of juvenile tunas sold as “faux poisson” could then largely exceed observed discard rates, emphasizing the need to improve sampling of “faux poisson” that is currently absent from official statistics and not included in stock assessment models. Besides, a large diversity of marine species was also taken as bycatch in the purse seine fishery, including billfishes, rays, sharks, and a few turtles listed as endangered that were all released alive at sea. The importance of bycatch in weight was generally low but some species such as wahoo (Acanthocybium solandri), rainbow runner (Elagatis bipinnulata), common dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), and silky sharks (Carcharhinus falciformis) were often caught under FADs, with an average occurrence per fishing set higher than 30%. For free schools, Atlantic sailfish (Istiophorus albicans) was the most frequent species taken as bycatch, with an average rate per fishing set higher than 20%. Only about 3.3% of the bycatch of associated fauna was discarded at sea while the remaining was sold as “faux poisson” in Abidjan. Further work should be conducted to better understand the factors involved in selecting between discarding at sea and retaining fish aboard for local markets.



1457) Recherche du mot : dorsale (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ridge)


1458) Recherche du mot : Propriété qui donne l'URL correspondant à cette espèce dans Worms : le nombre en fin d'URL étant l'identifiant Worms (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/wormsId)


1459) Recherche du mot : Scomberomorus regalis (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_regalis)


1460) Recherche du mot : Tripletail (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/lobotes_surinamensis)


1461) Recherche du mot : Estimation des stocks (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/stock_assessment)


1462) Recherche du mot : Frigate and bullet tunas (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_sp)


1463) Recherche du mot : Brachyscelus crusculum dans Worms !!!  (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/brachysculus_crusculum)


1464) Recherche du mot : cohort (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/cohort)
1/1637: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/combiningfishingclosurewithminimumsizeofcapturetoimproveoctopusproductioninsenegalesewatersanevaluationusinganalyticalmodelling> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Combining fishing closure with minimum size of capture to improve Octopus production in Senegalese waters: an evaluation using analytical modelling,
The dynamics of the Octopus vulgaris (Cuvier, 1797) population in Senegalese waters is
modelled to evaluate the potential impact of combining temporal fishing closure and minimum size of
capture on the production of this stock. The study is based on an analytical approach (cohort analysis
and simulation of captures on a monthly basis) adapted to the biological characteristics of O. vulgaris,
a short lifespan species. Several combinations of the two policies (minimum size and fishing closure)
are tested to complement the results of previous studies that evaluated each of the two strategies
separately, and in addition, to account for the fact that a positive synergistic effect can be expected.
The model covers the exploitation period from 1996 to 1999. As in previous simulations (of separate
effects), the present results focus on the instability of the responses (positive or negative, significant
or not, depending on the situation that prevailed each year) of the octopus stock to such policies. As
a consequence it is difficult to identify the ideal combination of closure and size limits that would
ensure a substantial improvement in production every year. Nevertheless, a 350g or 500g minimum size
policy seems to be profitable when combined with a two-month fishing closure in July–August. The
final discussion focuses on the fact that, in addition to its regional range, the present study presents
also a broader interest because the methodology proposed here aims to be applicable to other
cephalopods and short lived species fisheries.



1465) Recherche du mot : Carite rayado (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_lineolatus)


1466) Recherche du mot : Cero (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_regalis)


1467) Recherche du mot : Projet Chaloupe (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/projectChaloupe)


1468) Recherche du mot : QuikSCAT (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/QuikSCAT)
1/1638: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/trendsinprimaryproductionseasurfacetemperatureandwindinupwellingsystems> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Trends in primary production, sea surface temperature and wind in upwelling systems (1998-2007)
We take advantage of the longest high quality single-sensor global data set of ocean color available today to explore recent trends in the primary productivity of the main eastern boundary upwelling systems (EBUEs): California, Canary, Humboldt and Benguela. The chlorophyll-a concentration is used as a proxy for primary production. SST data from AVHRR and wind speed data from QuikSCAT are used in conjunction with this data set to analyse forcing mechanisms explaining the chlorophyll biomass.
Whereas the worldwide primary-production biomass shows on average decreasing trends, as already observed in the stratified part of the worldwide ocean, the productivity of most EBUEs increases during the study period. These contrasting trends are both significant, at least for the mid latitude range of 50°S-50°N, where the data coverage is sufficient for accurate estimation.
Probably due to the large scale atmospheric forcing, trends in sea surface temperature (SST) show non-significant relationships with the trends in biomass within upwelling systems, suggesting that SST anomalies cannot be used as an indicator of change in upwelling intensity in a continuous warming context. On the other hand, upwelling favourable equatorward winds show a significant correlation with the observed trends in biomass, suggesting that the trends in the trade winds are probably linked to an increase in the intensity of the Hadley cell circulation observed during the last several decades.



1469) Recherche du mot : Gyre subtropicale du sud de l'océan Indien (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/indian_south_subtropical_gyre_ecosystem)


1470) Recherche du mot : harbour (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/harbour)


1471) Recherche du mot : chalutier (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/trawler)


1472) Recherche du mot : Dasyatis spp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/dasyatis_spp)


1473) Recherche du mot : écosystème corallien (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/coral_ecosystem)


1474) Recherche du mot : Bonito (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/sarda_sarda)


1475) Recherche du mot : ecological_interaction (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/ecological_interaction)


1476) Recherche du mot : reproduction length (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/reproduction_length)


1477) Recherche du mot : northern giant petrel (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/macronectes_halli)


1478) Recherche du mot : Thalassarche chlororhynchos (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/thalassarche_chlororhynchos)


1479) Recherche du mot : Pteroplatytrygon violacea (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/pteroplatytrygon_violacea)


1480) Recherche du mot : Atlantic black skipjack (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/euthynnus_alleteratus)


1481) Recherche du mot : Istiophorus platypterus (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/istiophorus_platypterus)


1482) Recherche du mot : Auxis thasard (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/auxis_thazard)


1483) Recherche du mot : sharksucker (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/echeneis_naucrates)


1484) Recherche du mot : Production Primaire (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/primaryProduction)


1485) Recherche du mot : Spatial statistics (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/spatial_statistics)
1/1639: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/areviewofanalyticalapproachestoinvestigateseabirdenvironmentinteractions> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : A review of analytical approaches to investigate seabird-environment interactions
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution, and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In this paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour, and their environment in order to assess current trends, weaknesses, and future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated; and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where in most cases no behavioral information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. A vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird-environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, meso-scale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modeling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multi-scale, and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

2/1640: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analyticalapproachestoinvestigatingseabirdenvironmentinteractionsareview> : SCORE = 0.8188774
Doc : Analytical approaches to investigating seabird–environment interactions: a review
A goal of seabird ecology is to relate the physiology, population dynamics, distribution and behaviour of seabirds with their biotic and abiotic environments. One of the most challenging aspects is to understand how seabirds interact with their environment when direct observations are not always possible or practical. In the present paper, we reviewed 218 published studies that examined associations between seabird distribution, behaviour and their environment, in order to assess current trends, weaknesses and the future directions of research. Based on the number of publications, it is evident that the field is growing rapidly and that methods for evaluating seabird distribution are becoming increasingly more sophisticated and are changing from Eulerian (grid-like) to Lagrangian (particle-like) data types. This has been accompanied by a reduction in the spatial and temporal scale of observation, where, in most cases, no behavioural information is inferred from Lagrangian data; instead they are often used as if they were Eulerian data. In parallel, environmental remote sensing is becoming more common; however, we did not record significant changes in the statistical approaches used to describe seabird distributions and used to link them with oceanographic variables. In particular, despite the spatially explicit nature of the data, spatial statistics have rarely been used. The vast majority of studies used environmental variables that described water masses (descriptive approach), whereas a few studies determined oceanographic features that enhance prey availability to seabirds (process-based approach). Future studies could enhance their ecological interpretation of seabird–environment interactions by making greater use of ad hoc statistical approaches that facilitate appropriate pattern detection (e.g. area-restricted searching pattern for birds, mesoscale patterns for environment). Furthermore, appropriate hypothesis testing and modelling that accounts for the spatially explicit, multiscale and multivariate nature of the interaction between seabirds and their habitats is recommended. Although quantitative methods currently exist (but are rarely used), further application could greatly improve our understanding of the processes linking seabird distribution to their environment.

3/1641: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/modelingfishpopulationmovementsfromanindividualbasedrepresentationtoanadvectiondiffusionequation> : SCORE = 1.0235968
Doc : Modeling fish population movements: From an individual-based representation to an advection–diffusion equation
In this paper, we address the problem of modeling fish population movements. We first consider a description of movements at the level of individuals. An individual-based model is formulated as a biased random walk model in which the velocity of each fish has both a deterministic and a stochastic component. These components are function of a habitat suitability index, h, and its spatial gradient backward differenceh. We derive an advection–diffusion partial differential equation (PDE) which approximates this individual-based model (IBM). The approximation process enables us to obtain a mechanistic representation of the advection and diffusion coefficients which improves the heuristic approaches of former studies. Advection and diffusion are linked and exhibit antagonistic behaviors: strong advection goes with weak diffusion leading to a directed movement of fish. On the contrary weak advection goes with strong diffusion corresponding to a searching behavior. Simulations are conducted for both models which are compared by computing spatial statistics. It is shown that the PDE model is a good approximation to the IBM.



1486) Recherche du mot : source de données utilisée (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/used_data_source)


1487) Recherche du mot : cephalopod (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/cephalopod)
1/1642: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/spatialconsiderationsforthedakhlastockofoctopusvulgarisindicatorspatternsandfisheriesinteractions> : SCORE = 0.5117984
Doc : Spatial considerations for the Dakhla stock of Octopus vulgaris: indicators, patterns and fisheries interactions
The common octopus (Octopus vulgaris) is the target species of the cephalopod fishery that exploits two stocks, Dakhla and Cap Blanc, off southern Morocco (26 degrees N 21 degrees N), an area commonly referred to as the Saharan Bank. Octopus vulgaris is also one of the most abundant demersal species in this highly productive area, and plays a key role in the upwelling ecosystem. Spatial patterns of the main phases of the octopus vulgaris life cycle of the Dakhla stock are described, using trawl surveys carried out twice a year from 1998 to 2003. Using geostatistics and spatial indicators, mature females and juveniles are analysed and mapped to characterize the main features of the spawning and recruitment phases. There are clear distinctions between the spatial patterns of the spawning and recruitment phases: juveniles are more coastal, less spatially dispersed, more anisotropically distributed, and more patchy. Our results suggest that the spatial pattern of the Octopus vulgaris Dakhla stock is different from that of the same species in other ecosystems such as the Mediterranean. GIS reveals that the spawning-stock biomass is globally more accessible to the industrial fleet than to the artisanal one, a finding contrary to contemporary thinking and with important resource management implications.

2/1643: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/newinformationfromfishdietsontheimportanceofglassyflyingsquidhyaloteuthispelagicateuthoideaommastrephidaeintheepipelagiccephalopodcommunityofthetropicalatlanticocean> : SCORE = 0.61415803
Doc : New information from fish diets on the importance of glassy flying squid (Hyaloteuthis pelagica) (Teuthoidea: Ommastrephidae) in the epipelagic cephalopod community of the tropical Atlantic Ocean
Squids of the family Ommastrephidae are a vital part of marine food webs and support major fisheries around the world. They are widely distributed in the open ocean, where they are among the most abundant in number and biomass of nektonic epipelagic organisms. In turn, seven of the 11 genera of this family (Dosidicus, Illex, Martialia, Nototodarus, Ommastrephes, Sthenoteuthis, and Todarodes) are heavily preyed upon by top marine predators, i.e., birds, mammals, and fish, and currently support fisheries in both neritic and oceanic waters (Roper and Sweeney, 1984; Rodhouse, 1997). Their commercial importance has made the large ommastrephids the target of many scientific ...

3/1644: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/approachestoresolvingcephalopodmovementandmigrationpatterns> : SCORE = 1.0832729
Doc : Approaches to resolving cephalopod movement and migration patterns
Cephalopod movement occurs during all phases of the life history, with the abundance and location of cephalopod populations strongly influenced by the prevalence and scale of their movements. Environmental parameters, such as sea temperature and oceanographic processes, have a large influence on movement at the various life cycle stages, particularly those of oceanic squid. Tag recapture studies are the most common way of directly examining cephalopod movement, particularly in species which are heavily fished. Electronic tags, however, are being more commonly used to track cephalopods, providing detailed small- and large-scale movement information. Chemical tagging of paralarvae through maternal transfer may prove to be a viable technique for tracking this little understood cephalopod life stage, as large numbers of individuals could be tagged at once. Numerous indirect methods can also be used to examine cephalopod movement, such as chemical analyses of the elemental and/or isotopic signatures of cephalopod hard parts, with growing interest in utilising these techniques for elucidating migration pathways, as is commonly done for fish. Geographic differences in parasite fauna have also been used to indirectly provide movement information, however, explicit movement studies require detailed information on parasite-host specificity and parasite geographic distribution, which is yet to be determined for cephalopods. Molecular genetics offers a powerful approach to estimating realised effective migration rates among populations, and continuing developments in markers and analytical techniques hold the promise of more detailed identification of migrants. To date genetic studies indicate that migration in squids is extensive but can be blocked by major oceanographic features, and in cuttlefish and octopus migration is more locally restricted than predictions from life history parameters would suggest. Satellite data showing the location of fishing lights have been increasingly used to examine the movement of squid fishing vessels, as a proxy for monitoring the movement of the squid populations themselves, allowing for the remote monitoring of oceanic species.



1488) Recherche du mot : Carcharhinus leucas (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/carcharhinus_leucas)


1489) Recherche du mot : live sharksucker (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/echeneis_naucrates)


1490) Recherche du mot : green turtle (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/chelonia_mydas)
1/1645: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragingofthegreenseaturtlecheloniamydasonseagrassbedsatmayotteislandindianoceandeterminedbyacoustictransmitters> : SCORE = 1.002916
Doc : Foraging of the green sea turtle Chelonia mydas on seagrass beds at MayotteIsland (Indian Ocean), determined by acoustic transmitters
We studied the foraging rhythms of green sea turtles Chelonia mydas on the seagrass
beds of N'Gouja Bay, Mayotte Island (Comoros Archipelago) with acoustic transmitters and moored
listening stations. We monitored 8 tagged turtles (4 probable males, 3 probable females and 1 immature),
from 70 to 109 cm curved carapace length (CCL), for durations ranging from 5 to 92 d. The
turtles exhibited a regular diel pattern: they foraged mainly during the day (on average 87% of seagrass
detections were between 06:00 and 18:00 h) and rested on the inner reef slope during the night.
Night time feeding activities were observed on the seagrass bed when the night light was high. The
presence of turtles on the seagrass bed at night was significantly correlated with a night light index
(r = 0.54, p = 0.002), which included both moon light and cloudiness indices. Behaviour of the only
immature individual observed was similar to adult turtles, although it rested more frequently around
noon. All turtles displayed a high fidelity to 1 foraging site within the seagrass bed. Acoustic transmitters
and permanent listening stations are an appropriate technique for long-term behavioural
studies of turtles, with no human interaction with turtles during tracking, and represent a suitable
technique to assess the possible effects of environmental changes or human activities upon green
turtle behaviour.



1491) Recherche du mot : Estomac (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/stomac)


1492) Recherche du mot : Thazard blanc (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scomberomorus_tritor)


1493) Recherche du mot : Chiroteuthis sp (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/chiroteuthis_sp)


1494) Recherche du mot : Unknown shrimps (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/unknown_shrimps)


1495) Recherche du mot : paramètre (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/parameter)


1496) Recherche du mot : shark (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/shark)
1/1646: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/analysisofdataobtainedfromobserverprogrammesconductedinandintheindianoceanonboardfrenchpurseseiners> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Analysis of data obtained from observer programmes conducted in 2005 and 2006 in the indian ocean on board french purse seiners
This paper is a preliminary analysis of the data obtained under the National Database Plan (PNDB).
Between October 2005 and July 2006, three observers from the Development and Research Institute
(IRD) have been on board four French tuna purse seiners. They had to estimate by-catch and discard
and collect detailed information on the fishing activities and the use of FADs.
Areas prospected during these 134 days were NW Seychelles, SE Seychelles, E. Somalia and
Maldives-Chagos; 194 sets (116 positives and 86 negative) have been observed, with a majority
(84%) on free schools (162 sets, 51% positive) and quite few (16%) on associated schools (32 sets,
81% positives). During the day, the main activities of the boat were searching and fishing,
respectively 31% and 13% of total activity. Main reasons for null sets over free school as well as
FADs was that fish sinks or move too fast.
Discards were practically nulls and concerned mainly yellowfin tuna. About by-catch, it represents
less than 1% of total catch (in weight), mainly triggerfish, rainbow runner and wahoo. Selacians
(except shark whales) represented nearly 12% of the total by-catch (in weight) with mainly silky shark
over FADs and skate over free school. As regards billfishes, they represent 5% of total by-catch (in
weight) with mainly Indo-Pacific Sailfish over free school and black marlin over FADs.

2/1647: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitelinkedacousticreceiverstoobservebehavioroffishesinremoteareas> : SCORE = 0.57903373
Doc : Satellite-linked acoustic receivers to observe behavior of fishes in remote areas
Automated acoustic receivers are now widely used by biologists to study the behavior of fish. However, currently available acoustic receivers require physical recovery of the units to download stored data. Such operation is often difficult in remote study areas like in the open ocean. We present a new satellite-linked acoustic receiver (Vemco VR3-Argos) that allows downloading data through a satellite uplink (Argos). The VR3-Argos can last up to one year, sending GPS positions and tag data at regular time intervals. We illustrate the advantages of this new technology with tagging data from 121 fish of seven species (yellowfin tuna, bigeye tuna, skipjack tuna, wahoo, dolphinfish, silky shark and oceanic triggerfish) caught and released around drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean, far from any land. In opposition with the classic acoustic receivers (Vemco VR2), the use of VR3-Argos allowed to collect data for several weeks after leaving the drifting FADs. Maximum residence times of 3 days for bigeye tuna, 7 days for skipjack, 8 days for wahoo, 10 days for silky shark and 15 days for yellowfin tuna, dolphinfish and oceanic triggerfish could be recorded. VR2 and VR3-Argos are equivalent in terms of quality of residence times data, however depth data obtained through satellites are aggregated in 8 classes for compression purposes, which leads to a loss of precision available with raw data. Future directions of this technology are discussed.

3/1648: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/iotcwpeb> : SCORE = 0.7091686
Doc : IOTC WPEB - 2008/016
Data collected through 20 observer fishing trips were used to quantify
the number of silky sharks taken as bycatch by the French tuna
purse seine fishery of the Western Indian Ocean. 1,385 immature
silky sharks of which 85% was discarded at sea and 15% retained
aboard, were observed as bycatch during 685 fishing sets observed
from October 2005 to April 2008. Zero-inflated regression models
fitted with Bayesian methods were used to explain silky shark
bycatch as a function of fishing mode (free vs. fishing aggregating
device-associated (FAD) schools), area, and season. Model results
showed that silky sharks occurred in 24% of the fishing sets with an
expected number of sharks per set estimated to be 2.02 ± 0.05. The
3 covariates were found to significantly explain both the presence
and number of silky sharks caught by the French purse seiners. FAD
was shown to have a strong positive effect on the number of silky
sharks caught, an expected value of 4.3 sharks being taken in FADassociated
schools versus 0.3 shark in free schools. There were
significant differences in silky shark bycatch between seasons and
areas with higher bycatch than average in July-September and in the
South-East Seychelles area while fewer sharks were expected to be
caught in the North Somali area. Results are discussed within the
context of the ecosystem approach to fisheries for the analysis of
ecosystem effects of fishing.



1497) Recherche du mot : Ecosytème du Benguela (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/benguela_ecosystem)


1498) Recherche du mot : Scorpaenidae (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/scorpaenidae)


1499) Recherche du mot : Geomatic (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/geomatic)


1500) Recherche du mot : continental rise (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/continental_rise)


1501) Recherche du mot : Bonite (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/katsuwonus_pelamis)


1502) Recherche du mot : Argonauta común (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/argonauta_argo)


1503) Recherche du mot : jumelles (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/binoculars)


1504) Recherche du mot : Bonita (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/katsuwonus_pelamis)


1505) Recherche du mot : Macarela caballa (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/decapterus_macarellus)


1506) Recherche du mot : Pingüino rey (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/aptenodytes_patagonicus)


1507) Recherche du mot : Exploitation des ressources naturelles (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/natural_resources_exploitation)


1508) Recherche du mot : GPS (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems_def/GPS)
1/1649: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/satellitelinkedacousticreceiverstoobservebehavioroffishesinremoteareas> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Satellite-linked acoustic receivers to observe behavior of fishes in remote areas
Automated acoustic receivers are now widely used by biologists to study the behavior of fish. However, currently available acoustic receivers require physical recovery of the units to download stored data. Such operation is often difficult in remote study areas like in the open ocean. We present a new satellite-linked acoustic receiver (Vemco VR3-Argos) that allows downloading data through a satellite uplink (Argos). The VR3-Argos can last up to one year, sending GPS positions and tag data at regular time intervals. We illustrate the advantages of this new technology with tagging data from 121 fish of seven species (yellowfin tuna, bigeye tuna, skipjack tuna, wahoo, dolphinfish, silky shark and oceanic triggerfish) caught and released around drifting fish aggregating devices (FADs) in the Western Indian Ocean, far from any land. In opposition with the classic acoustic receivers (Vemco VR2), the use of VR3-Argos allowed to collect data for several weeks after leaving the drifting FADs. Maximum residence times of 3 days for bigeye tuna, 7 days for skipjack, 8 days for wahoo, 10 days for silky shark and 15 days for yellowfin tuna, dolphinfish and oceanic triggerfish could be recorded. VR2 and VR3-Argos are equivalent in terms of quality of residence times data, however depth data obtained through satellites are aggregated in 8 classes for compression purposes, which leads to a loss of precision available with raw data. Future directions of this technology are discussed.

2/1650: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/foragingstrategyofatropicalseabirdtheredfootedboobyinadynamicmarineenvironment> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Foraging strategy of a tropical seabird, the red-footed booby, in a dynamic marine environment
The foraging behaviour of animals depends on the distribution, abundance and predictability
of their food resources. In the marine environment, top predators such as seabirds are
known to concentrate their foraging effort in specific oceanic features where productivity is elevated
or prey concentrated. When marine productivity is low and prey distribution unpredictable, such as
in tropical waters, selection should favour the evolution of flexible foraging strategies. By using GPS,
Argos transmitters and activity recorders, we studied the foraging strategy of red-footed boobies
(RFBs) Sula sula breeding on Europa Island in the Mozambique Channel, to examine the way a central
place forager searches for prey in tropical waters. RFBs only foraged during the day-time and
never sat on the water at night; thus, they consequently had a limited maximum foraging range of
148 km. Primary production within this range was low overall (average 0.165 mg chlorophyll m–3),
with a high spatial and temporal heterogeneity due to the presence of strong geostrophic currents
and surface mixing by storms. RFBs appear to adjust their foraging strategy to cope with this situation.
Individual birds do not return to the same oceanic sites from one trip to the next, but generally
head in the direction of zones where productivity is enhanced. Active foraging, i.e. periods when
birds spent time on the sea surface or dived, occurred at the most distant part of the foraging trip.
Despite their limited foraging range and the low productivity of surrounding waters, red-footed boobies
are able to track zones of prey availability located in areas of enhanced primary production.
Searching is probably favoured by the presence of sub-surface predators that chase prey to the surface.
The foraging strategy of this tropical sulid appears to differ extensively from that of temperate
or polar seabirds whose prey distribution and availability are more predictable.

3/1651: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/fractallandscapemethodanalternativeapproachtomeasuringarearestrictedsearchingbehavior> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : Fractal landscape method: an alternative approach to measuring area-restricted searching behavior
Quantifying spatial and temporal patterns of prey searching is of primary importance for understanding animals' critical habitat and foraging specialization. In patchy environments, animals forage by exhibiting movement patterns consisting of area-restricted searching (ARS) at various scales. Here, we present a new method, the fractal landscape method, which describes the peaks and valleys of fractal dimension along the animal path. We describe and test the method on simulated tracks, and quantify the effect of track inaccuracies. We show that the ARS zones correspond to the peaks from this fractal landscape and that the method is near error-free when analyzing high-resolution tracks, such as those obtained using the Global Positioning System (GPS). When we used tracks of lower resolution, such as those obtained with the Argos system, 9.6-16.3% of ARS were not identified, and 1-25% of the ARS were found erroneously. The later type of error can be partially flagged and corrected. In addition, track inaccuracies erroneously increased the measured ARS size by a factor of 1.2 to 2.2. Regardless, the majority of the times and locations were correctly flagged as being in or out of ARS (from 83.8 to 89.5% depending on track quality). The method provides a significant new tool for studies of animals' foraging behavior and habitat selection, because it provides a method to precisely quantify each ARS separately, which is not possible with existing methods.

4/1652: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/aparsimoniousapproachtomodelinganimalmovementdata> : SCORE = 0.4094387
Doc : A parsimonious approach to modeling animal movement data
Animal tracking is a growing field in ecology and previous work has shown that simple speed filtering of tracking data is not sufficient and that improvement of tracking location estimates are possible. To date, this has required methods that are complicated and often time-consuming (state-space models), resulting in limited application of this technique and the potential for analysis errors due to poor understanding of the fundamental framework behind the approach. We describe and test an alternative and intuitive approach consisting of bootstrapping random walks biased by forward particles. The model uses recorded data accuracy estimates, and can assimilate other sources of data such as sea-surface temperature, bathymetry and/or physical boundaries. We tested our model using ARGOS and geolocation tracks of elephant seals that also carried GPS tags in addition to PTTs, enabling true validation. Among pinnipeds, elephant seals are extreme divers that spend little time at the surface, which considerably impact the quality of both ARGOS and light-based geolocation tracks. Despite such low overall quality tracks, our model provided location estimates within 4.0, 5.5 and 12.0 km of true location 50% of the time, and within 9, 10.5 and 20.0 km 90% of the time, for above, equal or below average elephant seal ARGOS track qualities, respectively. With geolocation data, 50% of errors were less than 104.8 km (<0.94°), and 90% were less than 199.8 km (<1.80°). Larger errors were due to lack of sea-surface temperature gradients. In addition we show that our model is flexible enough to solve the obstacle avoidance problem by assimilating high resolution coastline data. This reduced the number of invalid on-land location by almost an order of magnitude. The method is intuitive, flexible and efficient, promising extensive utilization in future research.

5/1653: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/deepseaconferenceonthegovernanceandmanagementofdeepseafisheries> : SCORE = 0.30707902
Doc : Deep Sea 2003: Conference on the Governance and Management of Deep-sea Fisheries
INTRODUCTION: 
The growing capacity of fishermen to repeat fishing operations at some known locations thanks to, for instance, precise maps of past activity and global positioning systems (GPS), is becoming more apparent as fine-scale information on fishing activities becomes available. Aggregated declarations at the level of statistical square levels hides the fine-scale information and the possibility to analyze small-scale fishing strategies. When available, information on fishing effort such as observers' declarations or vessel monitoring system (VMS) reports may indicate that the tendency of specific-area repeat fishing is sometimes frequent (Rijnsdorp, van Mourik Broekman and Visser 2000). In this paper, we are concerned by the fact that small-scale fishing tactics may interfere in the relation between commercial catch per unit effort (CPUE) and indices of abundance and potentially reduce the relevancy of mean CPUE for resource analysis purposes. The relationship between CPUE and abundance can be biased (e.g. Hillborn and Walters 1987, Rahikainen and Kuikka 2002) as it is the product of several processes such as schooling behaviour of fish, variation in catchability, interactions between fishing vessels and spatial distribution of fishing effort.

In this paper, we consider the trawl fishery for Patagonian toothfish (Dissostichus eleginoides) off Kerguelen Islands in the Indian sector of the Southern Ocean. In spite of difficult conditions of exploitation, the fishery increased until the end of the 1990s. The fishery can be characterized in the context of this paper by the fact that (a) it is mono-specific - toothfish alone is caught, (b) fishermen do a lot of repetitive tows and (c), management rules changed a few years after the fishery started, switching from global to individual quotas. Making use of the spatio-temporal distribution of tows, Bez, De Oliveira and Duhamel (in press) showed that a mean depletion effect of 5 to 10 percent per tow exists under repetitive fishing for toothfish. This local depletion is stronger for icefish (Champsocephalus gunnari) and grey rockcod (Lepidonotothen squamifrons). However these local depletion effects are weak and the fluctuations observed around the decreasing trends can be attributed to changes in the fishing efficiencies from one tow to the next. The objective of this paper is to use the repetitive fishing to estimate fishing efficiency distributions and to interpret their changes with regards to the change in regulations.

Here, "local fishing efficiency" measures the capacity of a unit of effort to catch fish effectively accessible to fishing (Gascuel 1993). As with all components of catchability, the local fishing efficiency should be estimated with CPUEs based on the same underlying fish abundance, which is never possible. Robson (1966) circumvented this difficulty by assuming homogeneity of fish density over quadrats. Laurec (1977) used geostatistical tools to account for the differences between two CPUEs when using them. Here, we use the territorial behaviour of toothfish and the existence of a series of repetitive fishing to build ratios of consecutive CPUEs to estimate fishing efficiency probability distributions.



1509) Recherche du mot : Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/ecosystems/seawifs)


1510) Recherche du mot : Projet PPEAO (uri : http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/agents/projectPPEAO)
1/1654: <http://www.ecoscope.org/ontologies/resources/biblioUMRpublication/cahierdeschargesorganisationdelexploitationdunebasededonneessurlespeuplementsdepoissonsetlapecheartisanaledesecosystemesestuarienslagunairesoucontinentauxdafriquedelouestprojetppeao> : SCORE = 2.316135
Doc : Cahier des charges : organisation de l'exploitation d'une base de données sur les Peuplements de poissons et la Pêche artisanale des Ecosystèmes estuariens, lagunaires ou continentaux d'Afrique de l'Ouest. Projet PPEAO
Ce projet concerne globalement le traitement d'informations d'une base de données sur les Peuplements de poissons et la Pêche artisanale des Ecosystèmes estuariens, lagunaires ou continentaux d'Afrique de l'Ouest (projet PPEAO).



1654
